Sure, I can explain it to you like you're five. So, imagine that there are lots of different companies that make phones, tablets, and other kinds of technology. These companies all come up with new ideas and ways to make their products better. They come up with these ideas by doing research and development (R&D). Sometimes, they come up with ideas that are so good that they want to make sure no one else can use them without their permission. So they get a special kind of permission called a patent. A patent is like a special license that only the company that has it can use. It's like a special club that only they can be a part of. If another company wants to use the idea covered by the patent, they have to ask the company with the patent for permission and usually pay them some money. This is called licensing. Sometimes, companies get into fights over patents. They might say that another company is using one of their ideas without permission, and they want them to stop. These fights are called patent wars. Now, let's get back to Google. Google is a very big company that makes lots of different products, including phones and tablets. They also do a lot of R&D and come up with lots of new ideas. When Google buys Motorola, they get access to all of the patents that Motorola has. This means that they can use all of those ideas without having to ask for permission or pay any money. It also means that they have more patents than they did before, which can be helpful in the patent wars. If another company is using one of Google's ideas without permission, Google can say "Hey, stop using our idea! We have a patent for it!" and the other company has to listen or they might get into trouble. So, in short, when Google bought Motorola, they got access to a bunch of patents that they can use to protect their own ideas and make it harder for other companies to use them without permission. This can be helpful in the patent wars because it gives Google more power to defend their ideas and make sure that other companies respect their patents.