Marxism is a theory and method of working class self-emancipation. It was developed by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels in the mid-19th century. Marxism analyzes the material conditions and economic activities required to fulfill human material needs and outlines the steps for revolutionary transformation of society. Trotskyism is a theory and method of socialism from below. It was developed by Leon Trotsky, a Russian Marxist who was exiled from the Soviet Union after the death of Lenin. Trotsky argued that socialism could only be achieved through international revolution and that the Soviet Union was not a socialist country because it was ruled by a bureaucratic elite that had betrayed the principles of socialism. Leninism is a theory and method of socialist revolution developed by Vladimir Lenin, the leader of the Russian Revolution of 1917. Lenin argued that a vanguard party of professional revolutionaries was necessary to lead the working class to power and that a dictatorship of the proletariat was necessary to defend the gains of the revolution against counter-revolutionary forces. Stalinism is a theory and method of socialism that was developed and practiced by Joseph Stalin, the leader of the Soviet Union from 1922 to 1953. Stalinism is characterized by a one-party dictatorship, state control of the economy, and repression of political opposition. Stalin is responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people during his rule. Maoism is a theory and method of socialist revolution developed by Mao Zedong, the leader of the Chinese Communist Party from 1949 to 1976. Maoism is characterized by the idea of continuing revolution under socialism and the belief that peasants, rather than the urban working class, are the main revolutionary force in societies like China. Kim Jong Il, the leader of North Korea from 1994 to 2011, was a Stalinist in the sense that he ruled North Korea as a one-party dictatorship and followed a policy of state control of the economy and repression of political opposition. However, he also incorporated elements of Maoism into his ideology, such as the idea of continuing revolution under socialism and the importance of the role of peasants in the revolutionary process.