There are many different Christian denominations, which can be confusing for people who are not familiar with Christianity. Here is a brief explanation of some of the main denominations and what distinguishes them: Roman Catholicism: This is the largest and oldest denomination of Christianity. Catholics believe in the Pope as the leader of the church and follow the teachings of the Bible, as well as the traditions and practices of the Catholic Church. Protestantism: Protestantism is a broad term that refers to a number of denominations that separated from the Roman Catholic Church during the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century. Protestant denominations include Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, and Lutherans, among others. Protestants generally believe in salvation through faith in Jesus and follow the teachings of the Bible. Orthodox Christianity: This denomination is made up of several churches that split from the Roman Catholic Church in the 11th century. Orthodox Christians follow the teachings of the Bible and the traditions and practices of the Orthodox Church, which includes the use of icons and liturgical services. Mormonism: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, also known as the Mormon Church, is a Christian denomination that was founded in the 19th century in the United States. Mormons believe in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, which they believe is another testament of Jesus Christ. Seventh-day Adventism: This denomination is a branch of Protestantism that was founded in the 19th century. Adventists follow the teachings of the Bible and believe in the second coming of Jesus. They also observe the seventh day of the week (Saturday) as a day of worship. Pentecostalism: This is a movement within Christianity that emphasizes the role of the Holy Spirit and the importance of spiritual gifts such as speaking in tongues and healing. Pentecostals often have lively and emotional worship services. I hope this helps! Please let me know if you have any other questions.