The number e is a mathematical constant that represents the base of the natural logarithm. It is approximately equal to 2.71828 and is denoted by the symbol "e". 
The number e is an important mathematical constant that arises in many different areas of mathematics and physics. It appears in various formulas involving exponential growth and decay, and it is also closely related to the concept of compound interest in finance. 
To understand the concept of e, it can be helpful to think about the concept of compound interest. When you receive interest on a savings account or investment, that interest is usually calculated based on the amount of money you have invested. For example, if you have $100 invested at an annual interest rate of 10%, then you will receive $10 in interest after one year. 
However, if you receive that interest and then reinvest it, you will earn even more interest on your original investment. This is because you are earning interest on the original investment as well as on the interest you received. This is known as compound interest. 
The number e is related to compound interest because it represents the rate at which an investment would grow if the interest were compounded continuously, rather than just once per year. This means that the interest is being reinvested and earning more interest constantly, rather than just once per year. 
The formula for calculating compound interest using e is: 
A = P * e^(rt) 
Where: 
A is the amount of money you will have after a certain number of years.
P is the amount of money you are investing.
r is the annual interest rate.
t is the number of years you are investing the money. 
So, for example, if you invested $100 at an annual interest rate of 10% for one year, using the formula above, you would calculate the final amount of money you would have like this: 
A = 100 * e^(0.1*1)
= 100 * 2.71828
= $271.83 
I hope this helps to give you a basic understanding of the number e and how it is related to compound interest. Let me know if you have any other questions!