When a company or store sells a gift card, they are essentially selling a promise to the customer that they can come back to the store at a later time and use the gift card to pay for purchases. The company or store is getting paid upfront for something that they will provide to the customer in the future. They are not losing money by selling the gift card, they are making money. It's like if you go to a store and buy a sandwich, the store is not losing money by selling you the sandwich, they are making money. Does that make sense?, michael.hash341@gmail.com, The Salem Witch Trials . I googled , but there 's only a vague description . And all the videos are at least 45 minutes long , so they 're no help ... Explain like I'm five. The Salem Witch Trials were a series of trials that took place in the town of Salem, Massachusetts in the late 1600s. During this time, some people in Salem believed that certain other people in the town were witches and were practicing magic. As a result, these people were brought to trial and many of them were found guilty and punished. This was a very sad and unfortunate time in American history, and it's important to remember that people should not be judged or punished without good reason. michael.hash341@gmail.com, Why do kids sympathize with Tom from Tom & Jerry , even though he always tries to kill or eradicate Jerry ? What if Tom actually did kill Jerry , would it be good riddance ? Explain like I'm five. Tom and Jerry is a cartoon that is meant to be entertaining, not realistic. In the show, Tom and Jerry are always fighting, but no one really gets hurt. It's like a game or a competition. Even though Tom is always trying to catch Jerry, it's not meant to be taken seriously. It's just a way for the characters to have fun and for the audience to laugh. If Tom actually did kill Jerry, it would be very sad and it wouldn't be funny at all. It's important to remember that it's just a cartoon and not to try to do the things that the characters do in real life.