There was a rather long discussion about the relationship of nationalism , monarchy and the whole question of whether the Nazis where left or right - wing recently on /r / badhistory . For some deeper stuff , I therefore recommend this [ post of mine ] ( URL_0 ) . The easy version , for ELI5 : Yes , the Nazis were , by modern definition , right wing , ultra - nationalist , traditionalist ; although they personally pretended to reject this left to right spectrum . What we have to consider is that European , and especially German parliaments and parties have always been very different from the classic American two party system . Meaning that parties with every so slightly differing opinions might easily split up , while it would , for example , be crazy for the Tea party in the US to try to form an independent party from the Republicans . Now , the difference between the Nazis and the National conservatives ( who were monarchists ) was n't actually that small though . That 's what so special both about fascism and communism . Both were essentially an alternative interpretation of the left and right wing at this time . The right wing up until then meant being supportive of the recently disposed monarchy . And the Nazis did actually embrace that narrative of the monarchy , or at least the empire , more than most people grant them here in this thread . In the post I linked , there 's a fairly well known postcard from that time showing Frederick II . " The Great " ; Bismarck , chancellor of Prussia and the Empire ; Hindenburg , Chief of Staff at the end of World War II and finally , Hitler . The well known pompous marches , evocative of the Romans ; and the whole term of the " Third Reich " show that connection as well . The problem was , that , as others have pointed out , Germans made the Kaiser , Wilhelm II . , responsible for losing World War II - besides Jews and Socialists , due to Nazi propaganda . They also despised the Elitist nature that was even inherent to the late Imperial army , with Nobles taking all the important positions of power and the common men dying in the trenches . They still liked the idea of a powerful Empire though ; and thought that more conservative mores were needed , making greater social freedom responsible for the fall of the republic . ( The same narrative we see with modern right wingers : Multiculturalism and tolerance towards alternative lifestyles weaken the nation . ) Essentially , Hitler made conservatism for the masses . The Nazis never really abandoned their silent admiration for the monarchy though - see the pompous marches and the whole " Reich"-narrative . The dethroned Kaiser actually resided in Belgium for the rest of his life and thought that Hitler would eventually reinstate him . When he died , Hitler gave him a pompous funeral ; with Swastikas all around , despite for the Kaiser previously having said that he did not want them to be displayed there . The army was also still heavily influenced by former nobles . VON Stauffenberg and his accomplices , who tried and failed to kill Hitler , were all disgruntled monarchists , but had collaborated with the Nazis so far because there evidently was still a lot of ideological overlap .