Dispatcher here . I dispatch for a sheriffs office in a ski county . Our dispatch center dispatches for the county deputies , the state troopers , the park rangers , the wildlife officers , the US forest service officers , and local fire and EMS . As far dispatching law enforcement goes , each agency has a certain jurisdiction , and if a call happens in their jurisdiction we usually send one ( or multiple ) units depending on the call . For example the state troopers take all of the calls on the state roads and interstates ( accidents , traffic violations , road hazards , suspicious vehicles on the interstate , etc ) . The county deputies take all of the calls on county roads , and county property . These calls may include domestic violence calls at a citizens houses , burglary alarms , citizen complains against each other , welfare checks , and civil problems . They also patrol the area proactively trying to prevent crime . They have a job very similar to a city police officer . The park rangers take care of all of the problems in state park jurisdiction , and the wildlife officers generally ride around on ATVS and look for poachers , and take care of the wildlife people encounter on their property . The US forest officer takes the calls in the national forest in our jurisdiction and patrols the highway the passes through it . He may also receive help from our deputies if need be because we have a deputy whose zone passes through his national forest . We also have a local police department in the area , but their dispatch is in another location and we occasionally coordinate . We can hear each others radio traffic , but do n't dispatch each others officers . Now , there are about 6 troopers ( Highway patrol ) on air in the busiest time , and they are separated into 3 zones . Each trooper is assigned a zone , and if we receive a call in their zone we generally ask them to respond . If all the troopers in their zone are unavailable , we ask the officer in charge to advise . The deputies have 4 zones with 6 deputies on duty . 4 deputies have their own zone ( so one in each zone ) and there is a float who will respond to any call if an officer is busy , and another call comes in in their zone . There is also a SGT on duty who is the boss of the crew . If a call comes in their zone , they are dispatched to it , and if deputies from another zone come to assist , the officer who is assigned to that zone will be in charge of the call ( write the big report , and if needed , take the prisoner into the jail ) . When we take a call our system automatically recognizes the address and maps it for us , and we can see whose zone it is in , and we send that unit . Generally , there is a unit available to assist if they need backup , and all officers in every agency will back each other if they feel they are in a dangerous situation . We have a computer aided dispatch system that tracks all of the calls , and what every unit is doing , so we know if they are available , unavailable , their location and how long they have been on that call so we can security check them if need be . I 'm not going into detail with any other agency besides the highway patrol and Sherrifs deputies because they all pretty much have one zone . I hope this covers at least a small chunk of curiosity . Feel free to ask more questions , because I 'm sure I 've probably made no sense . Oh , and they know the address because it shows up on their mobile dispatch center on their computer in their vehicle , and we always tell them when we dispatch them on the call .