Depends on the cameras . In some cases , absolutely . In others , definitely not . Most of the time though , the answer is ' sort of . ' A Hasselblad Stellar is entirely identical to a Sony RX-100 except for the case , but when it came out , sold for about five times the price . In this situation , the markup was entirely based on the cachet of owning a Hasselblad . ( Note : It did n't work . The design studio has been shut down , and the Stellar is selling for about 70 % off now . ) In general , a big part of the cost of a camera is derived from the sensor - specifically , the size of it . The Nikon D7100 is quite similar in design and features to the D600 , but the sensor in the D600 is substantially bigger ( full - frame ) , and the camera sells for about twice the price . Does the sensor cost that much more ? No , not really - but building a camera around it requires more engineering as well . Now if you have a built - in lens , your optics are going to get better as the price increases . That 's a HUGE factor in the price of a camera . Ultimately , cameras follow the same curve as almost every other consumer product : As you move from the low end to the high end , the improvement / price starts out high , then moves to a fairly steady value , then drops off . Say that to make a ( separate ) camera at all , you 'll have to sell it for $ 75 . That 's the base cost of making a body , shutter , electronics , and lens . Double the price , and you get MORE than twice as good of a camera - higher precision , better autofocus , more features , bigger and better lens , bigger sensor , the works . Double it again to $ 300 , and you get about twice as good of a camera as the $ 150 was . Another doubling , and you get about 1.6x as good of a camera . Now we 're getting into the diminishing returns area . The key here is n't whether a $ 1200 camera is twice as good as a $ 600 one , but whether it 's enough of an improvement that you are willing to pay an extra $ 600 for it . Is a $ 2400 camera twice as good as a $ 1200 ? Nope , definitely not - but it 's significantly better in a few ways , and those factors might be enough to get you to shell out the difference . Also , if you have $ 30k wrapped up in lenses , is it really outrageous to buy a camera body for $ 4k that is modestly better than a $ 1k one ? Ultimately , what do you want from your camera , and how much are you willing to spend on it ?