Everyone is familiar with the model of an atom where you have a positive nucleus , with negative electrons whizzing around in circles , we call these circles orbitals , where the orbital number goes up the further away from the nucleus you are . An electron can only be located in these orbitals , never between them , think of it like a ladder . You can climb up a ladder , but you only stand on each individual rung . This is , for many things , a good picture . However , we know that it is * not * how things actually look . We know this because physicists are really good at playing the " if this , then ... " game . Basically , if electrons were actually in circular orbits around the nucleus , the structure of the atom would n't be stable , and we would n't be here to ask any kind of question ( I can go further into this if you want , but I 'm mostly just trying to provide a backstory for why we have ) . So , what 's a better picture ? Well , the blob shapes that you 've seen / dealt with in molecular orbital theory . Here 's why . One of the most fundamental bits of quantum mechanics is something called the Schrodinger Equation ( SE ) . There is a lot of mathematical formalism that I 'll skip over here , but the SE is useful because it allows us to solve , given certain physical conditions , the behaviour of a particle . As a result of the SE , we learn that very small particles do n't behave in the way that say , a baseball would , where we can say " The pitcher threw the ball , at this speed , and we can track it 's location from here , to here , to here , to ... " Instead , we learn that tiny things , like electrons , have * probabilities * of being certain places , traveling certain speeds , etc , and when we measure one of those things ( see : Heisenberg uncertainty principle for more ) , we reduce how well we can know the other , because the act of measuring affects the actual thing . Think of it like if you had to measure where a baseball was between where the pitcher threw it and the batter hit it by smacking it with another baseball . Obviously , you would disturb it 's original trajectory , so you could n't know where it would be after you measure it with much certainty . So , physicists start solving the SE for specific things to see how a tiny particle would behave under certain circumstances that are very basic ; the most basic being the particle in the infinite potential well . Imagine a particle , stuck in a deep hole . It can bounce around , have more / less energy , but ca n't escape the hole . Let 's imagine that this is a very tiny particle now , so that we are dealing with the SE . Well , if we solve the SE we find that the particle can have different energy levels ( again , think rungs on a ladder ; so the particle can exist in different heights from the bottom of the hole ) . Our solutions to the SE are waves ( sine , cosine ) . When use follow the rules of probability theory and Born 's rule ( which is a rule about how we measure probabilities in quantum mechanics ) we can find that we can calculate the probability of [ where the particle is in our well ] ( URL_0 ) , given different energy levels . The peaks of the graphs represent the most likely place , while the nodes are zero probability . Eventually , physicists solve the SE for the specific set of circumstances that an electron would have if bound to a proton ; e.g. " in orbit around a proton " if you are still thinking in the orbital / planetary picture of an atom . An electron going around a proton ? Well , that 's a hydrogen atom . So , when the SE was solved for the hydrogen atom , in three dimensions , physicists could solve for the different energy levels ( orbital levels ) of the electron . This would be like the graph above , where there are areas of high probability , lower probability , and no probability ( like the space between orbitals , where the electron is not allowed ) . This graph though is more complicated because we have three dimensions now instead of one dimension . The " blobs " give you the areas where there is a probability of finding an electron , and , like the particle in a well , different energy levels ( n=1,2 , ... ) give differently shaped solutions . These arise because the solutions to the Hydrogen atom are a specific set of equations called spherical harmonics [ that give rise to solutions that look like this ] ( URL_1 ) . For atoms other than hydrogen , the system gets too complicated to solve in closed form , except for specific cases where an atom can sort of look like a hydrogen atom ( like if all the electrons have been stripped away except one ) . * However * physicists ( and chemists ! ) are a bunch of pretty smart guys , and take these solutions to qualitatively ( and sometimes quantitatively ) analyze a system . Bonding between atoms ( depending on the type of bond being formed ) happen when energy levels get crossed between atoms ; which happens in fairly specific ways , with some being more common than others because they are more energetically favourable . These blobs correspond to different " strengths " or bonding energies ( sigma , pi bonds ... ) . Chemists and physicists characterize the energy levels / shells by how they get filled with electrons . This is your 1s , 2p , etc . The rules of quantum mechanics , and solutions to the SE give you these different energy levels or " shells . " Even though it is * very * difficult ( or impossible ? ) to solve the SE for high Z atoms and molecules , we can solve ( sometimes numerically ) for these things by assuming certain forms of solutions ( the different blobs ) and knowing how likely things are to happen , and exploiting symmetries . These are the ( sometimes complicated ) rules that chemists know for how molecular bonding happens . Let me know if you have any more questions . I 'm decent at the physics , less familiar with the chemistry side ( it was a while ago that I had those classes ) . If others want to add / correct me on anything , please do . What I 've posted is my understanding of what OP asked , and does n't necessarily mean it 's 100 % correct , and the interpretation can sometimes be misguided .