I 'm a graphics engine programmer by profession , so I 've programmed engines that handle real - time shadows quite a few times . There are different techniques to shadows , each one costs something in performance and has drawbacks . ----- * * Stencil shadows * * , used in Doom 3 and F.E.A.R. , calculate what areas should be occluded ( within shadow ) by taking a light source and tracing lines from the light source to each vertex on a polygon , this is mostly done on the CPU . Where these lines pass through polygons a new mesh is created , which is rendered to the stencil buffer and creates sharp shadows that describe where the meshes are visible ( Basically where those lines from the light connect with polygons ) . This effectively generates a sharp representation of shadows against surfaces ( more or less generates something that describes the clipping of shadows ) . It is mathematically intensive and requires a fast CPU , something that game consoles do n't typically have when compared with desktop PCs so this method performs better on PCs where a CPU is quite powerful . This method is not used very much these days . ----- The other technique which is quite popular these days ( easy to implement ) is * * shadow mapping * * , which takes advantage of the GPU to draw what each light " sees " by moving the camera to where the light is facing , drawing what it sees to just the depth buffer ( So it knows how far away what it is seeing is ) . Once the depth information is gathered , the camera moves back to the normal view and draws the world normally , however it keeps the shadow camera 's depth buffer and position at hand and when the GPU is drawing the material of objects you 're looking it ( textures , lighting , etc ) it will check the position of the object you 're looking at , then it will use the equation for the shadow camera 's position and find out how far away that position is from the shadow camera , then it uses the shadow camera 's depth buffer to see if it is further away than the depth value in the same X / Y position on that depth buffer . If it is , then it is in shadow , if it is n't , then it is in light . This option moves the intense maths to the GPU but costs GPU memory for the shadow cameras ' depth buffers , also you need to repeat the operation for every single shadow - casting light source , which means you are drawing the game world multiple times in one frame . Very expensive . To have more accurate shadows you need a higher resolution depth texture , which means slower pixel lookups , more memory used , worse performance * * < - This is why you have pixellated shadows * * Also you do n't always want hard shadows , so some materials will define how blurry the shadow it receives is which means extra maths for the GPU to do . Consoles can cope with this better as they have powerful GPUs compared to their CPUs , PCs also benefit from this as it scales well with hardware ( So if you can support high resolution shadows you can choose to use them ) . Games typically only use 1 shadow source for shadow mapping ( the Sun ) because they want to dedicate more time to making the rest of the scene look good rather than having multiple shadows , some of which you wo n't even see . And all this needs to be done in under 16.666~ milliseconds for 60 FPS . ----- Here 's a summary of shadow mapping ; 1 . Move camera to shadow - casting light 2 . Draw what that light " sees " to its own depth buffer 3 . Repeat N times for every shadow that effects the scene 4 . Move camera to player point of view 5 . Upload all shadow depth buffers to GPU 6 . Upload all camera matrices for each shadow casting light 7 . Draw what the player sees as normal 8 . Draw materials ( textures , etc ) 9 . Take the world position of the fragment ( pixel ) that is being drawn 10 . Translate that with each matrix of the shadow camera to get its position on the depth buffer in the perspective of the shadow camera 11 . Check if the fragment we want to draw is " behind " the fragment that is in the same position on the shadow cameras ' depth buffers 12 . If it is behind a depth buffer fragment , render as if in shadow ( Darken it by some factor , check samples around the same point to see how blurry the shadow is , calculate new material values , etc , etc ) ----- From the " Draw materials ( textures , etc ) " point onwards everything is done on the fragment shader , which means that those steps are repeated for every visible pixel and every pixel that you ca n't see ( so stuff drawn behind objects that are about to be covered up by objects ) , and with matrix mathematics being so expensive you can imagine that doing all that for every pixel in a 1920x1080 image is very expensive , hence why most games stick with 1 shadow source and choose to make that 1 look really good . ----- Extra ; I saw someone mention * * pre - baked shadows * * , this moves the shadow rendering stage to the content generation stage which means highly accurate shadows can be produced and the only performance cost is having an extra texture for the surface shadow ( Unless your engine is clever and streams textures with the pre - baked shadows on them , i d Tech 5 ) . The obvious draw - back to pre - baked shadows is that they can not move . The less - obvious draw - back ( that Doom 3 attempted to solve ) is that the models in the world wo n't be shadowed in the same way as the pre - baked textures as models are expected to move around , this means they need a different lighting model to the world which means they will always look out of place . This is known as the " Hanna - Barbera effect " , where things that move look very much out of place compared to the background they are drawn on . ----- Extra 2 ; Another shadowing concept that is usually forgotten about is * * ambient occlusion * * , which is where light photons bounce off objects and slightly illuminate areas that are in shadow . This causes an effect where two surfaces near each other will have photons bounce more and more between the surfaces , losing energy as they do , which causes the surfaces to produce dark shadows closer to where they meet . Games cheat this by using a technique first shown in Crysis ( 2007 ) where the depth buffer is once again used to check how close objects are to each other , where the objects are close it will draw a fuzzy dark patch which is later blurred with a gaussian blur to produce the ambient occlusion for the scene . This is then used with the final rendered frame to produce further shadows . Ambient occlusion can also be pre - baked , as it is in games such as Team Fortress 2 . ----- Extra 3 ; The latest way to do shadows is * * voxel cone tracing * * where we convert the light data of the world into a voxel representation and trace between voxels to illuminate objects , rather than to cast shadows . This technique was developed for real - time global - illumination but it also works for calculating shadows . This technique is really good as it produces incredibly accurate shadows depending on voxel resolution and scales very nicely , but the draw - back is that it is difficult to implement as most of the algorithm is too slow to run on a CPU but runs very nicely across the many GPU cores , so CUDA or OpenCL is used . The was a technique developed before the XBone / PS4 consoles were announced and it was running very well on PC hardware of the time , Unreal Engine 4 even adopted the technique pretty much the moment it had a white paper published , however the XBone and PS4 specs were announced and both consoles are significantly weaker than we all thought they would be , so this technique has been retired early and will probably reappear in the next generation of consoles . ----- Extra 4 ; Some people are discussing * * blob shadows * * , which are n't intensive at all and are relatively cheap . There 's many ways to do a blob shadow , usually it is done by just having a square at the feet of objects with a blob texture on it , but the problem with this is that the shadow floats in the air if you are standing on the edge of geometry . The best way is to grab information about the intersecting terrain of the shadow , generate a new mesh that overlays on that terrain and apply a decal texture of a blob shadow . Super Mario 64 uses a neat trick where the blob shadow is on a circular mesh that is split into pie - like sections , when a section hangs over the edge of a surface it is made invisible , this is a good mix between the first technique of blob shadows and the second technique . Another form of shadows similar to blob is to flatten the objects at their base and render them to a colour buffer with no transparency and a black colour , then this shadow buffer can be made semi - transparent and drawn over the final colour buffer ( with some depth testing ) to get some simple shadows - at - the - feet of objects , but again they will hang over geometry , which is where the clipping is needed .