There are two basic ways a sail can drive a boat onward . 1 . If the wind is coming from behind , or at not too big an angle behind , the boat , then the sail is trimmed ( basically , aimed ) so that the wind fills the sail from behind . The wind pushes the boat along , as you 'd expect . If the boat were to reach the speed of the wind , any further increase in the boat 's speed would cause the wind to start pushing it * back * . So , in that configuration , the boat ca n't go faster than the wind . 2 . Once the wind is more than about 45 degrees off from the stern ( rear ) of the boat , though , the sail is trimmed such that the * front edge * of the sail is pointing into the wind . The wind is now flowing * along * the sail on both sides of it . As the boat turns further and further towards the wind , the sail gets pulled in further and further , so that its front edge is aimed into the wind and the wind is flowing along both sides . This works until the boat is heading about 45 degrees upwind - that is , the wind is coming in at a 45 degree angle off the bow ( front ) of the boat . How the sail works in this case , I 'll explain a bit further down . 3 . When the boat is pointing closer than 45 degrees into the wind , that will stop working . You can no longer get the right sail shape , and the wind will just push against the boat and slow it down and eventually stop it . So the people in other comments saying you can sail almost directly upwind are mistaken . You ca n't practically sail very close to directly upwind , you have to be a significant angle off . This is why , when boats are trying to get directly upwind , you 'll see the zigzag , and you 'll notice each zig and zag is approximately a 90 degree turn - because they 're close to 45 degrees off the wind in one direction , and then the other , as they work their way upwind . So , how does the sail work when the boat is pointing somewhere between about 45 degrees upwind and 45 degrees downwind ? It 's all about the shape of the sail . Imagine yourself looking down on the boat from directly above the mast . The wind is blowing the sail into a sort of billow form . If it could , the wind would blow the sail all the way straight in whatever direction the wind is going , like a flag , but it ca n't . A sail is not like a flag in a very important way - the bottom of it is attached to a big straight bar , called the boom . So the sail must stay straight at the bottom , all the way to the rear corner . But , and this is just as important , the sail is n't a plain flat triangle either . It has a bunch of extra fabric ; it 's bigger in the middle than is needed to fill the space between the lines if it were just flat . So there 's extra material to billow out , and the wind , trying to blow the sail off to the side , turns it into a curve . Because of the shape of the sail and how much extra material is in which parts , the sail forms a shape with a sharper ballooning out right at the front , and a shallower curve towards the rear . If you 're looking at this from above , this shape looks very much like what the cross - section of an airplane wing looks like from the side . It works in the same way . I 'm not going to fully ELI5 how that works right here , but the simplest way to imagine it is that the wind creates * suction * on the rear side of the sail . Think of it like this , sort of : Along the inside of the sail 's curve , the side in the direction the wind is coming from , the wind is directly hitting the sail and being curved by it . So here , the wind is partly pushing against the sail . But on the outside of the sail 's curve , the side away from the direction the wind is coming from , the wind going past the mast would just keep on moving past where the sail is , except that direction of motion of the air would pull some air away from the sail . It causes the wind to curve in towards the sail after it has passed it , but it 's not actually blowing against the sail , it 's still blowing kind of away from the sail . It 's pulling air away from the sail . It 's creating a kind of suction , sucking the sail in that direction . It 's pulling the sail towards the direction in which it 's billowing . Now , you might 've noticing , looking down at the boat from above , that this direction the wind is sucking the sail towards is n't actually directly towards the front of the boat . And you 're right - if the boat were flat on the bottom , it would start sliding partly sideways , partly forward . But sailboats have something called a keel ( if it 's permanently fixed ) or centerboard ( if it 's made to slide into and out of the water ) , which sticks out from the bottom of the boat deep into the water . This keel is a thing but wide blade shape that allows the boat to easily slide forward or backward , but presents a lot of resistance against sliding sideways . So all of the sideways component of the force coming from the sail gets wasted pushing water against the side of the keel / centerboard , but the forward component of the force from the sail moves the boat forward . Even though the boat is actually being pushed at an angle sideways - forward , it only moves forward . Now here 's the most important part for answering your question : This motion of the wind along the sail on both sides , creating a force that sucks the sail towards where it 's billowing ... this force is going to keep on being there as long as the wind is flowing along the sail . It does n't matter how fast the boat is moving . This force is stronger when the wind is faster , and this force weakens when the wind is slower , but this force is not affected at all by how fast the boat is moving ! It 's the same amount of suction - force on a boat standing still , or on a boat slowly , or a boat moving fast . If the boat happens to be moving at a speed that happens to be higher than the speed of the wind ? So what ? There 's no relationship , per se , between the speed of the wind and the speed of the boat in that sense . The only relationship is that the speed of the wind determines how much suction - force acceleration is being applied to the boat . In theory , this could eventually accelerate the boat to " infinite " speed ( well , eventually relativity and speed of light limitations start to matter :) , as long as the wind kept flowing along the sides of the sail like that . It does n't , of course , because there 's drag on the boat . That is , resistance to its forward motion , mainly from the water , though somewhat from air too . For any specific amount of forward suction - force , there 's a maximum speed it can get the boat to , where the amount of force from water and air resistance is equal to amount of forward force from the sail 's suction , and the boat stops getting any faster . Obviously , the stronger the wind , the faster the boat can go before reaching that point , because the stronger the wind , the stronger the suction - force from the sail . But the point is , that maximum speed is * not * determined by a comparison of the boat 's speed and the wind 's speed . Rather , it 's determined by the relationship between the amount of suction - force you can get from that particular size & shape of sail at whatever the current speed of the wind is , vs. the amount of resistance on the boat ( determined by its mass and design ) . Of course skill matters too , because the boat wo n't actually get the true maximum force from the sail . How close it is to the maximum possible , depends on how well the sailors trim the sail to just the right point , and keep up with changes in wind direction , with a combination of subtly steering the boat and moving the sail in or out .