A hedge fund is an investment fund that uses hedging instruments to seek outsized returns . Hedging instruments are instruments that can be used to lower your risk . For example , if you are a farmer and you know you will produce 100 gallons of milk per day for the next year , you can pre - sell that milk on a futures or forwards market , thereby reducing your risk . This is called hedging . On the other side of your hedge might be a cheese manufacturer who wants to guarantee their input costs and therefore also hedge using futures contracts . Unfortunately , the amount of people who need to hedge do n't perfectly balance out . In come the speculators . These speculators take the other side of the deal allowing the counter - party to hedge . What 's more , the speculator is seeking a return while the hedger is seeking a guarantee , so often the speculator demands a price that favours them , allowing them to earn outsized returns . In this example , if we expect milk to sell at $ 100 next year , the farmer might be happy to lock in a price of $ 98 , which would give the speculator an expected $ 2 gain . In reality , they might end up owing $ 10 if the price ends up at $ 88 , but on average , they trade a good return for the farmer 's security . What 's more , the Hedge fund does n't have to put much money down to buy this contract , since all they are doing is making a promise to pay in the future . Futures , forwards , options , and leverage ( borrowing ) are the typical tools Hedge Funds use to speculate on the market and get exaggerated returns . Hedge funds buy or sell these in combination with the underlying asset ( in this example , milk , but more commonly , stocks or index funds ) to exaggerate the moves in the market . If they correctly bet on an asset increasing in value , they can get more than 10x the market return of simply buying the asset . Conversely , they can also fail miserably . They are high risk and for this reason , you are n't supposed to invest in them unless you are an accredited investor . We tend to believe that they are extremely successful because of survivorship bias . For example , if you look at any hedge fund that exists today and you ask how much they made over the last ten years , almost all of them did extremely well . The reason of course is that the hedge funds that did badly over the recession no longer exist and wo n't be part of your database . Hedge funds fail more frequently than any other kind of fund but also can give better returns than any other kind of fund when they succeed .