During World War 1 the british and the french took the middle east which was up to then governed by the Ottoman empire , They mapped and carved up the land by a treaty called Sykes Picot treaty , This treaty stipulated which areas of the captured middle east would become british or french colonies and also set which tribes would become the local rulers of each state . The idea was that by putting a minority ruling class in each country would make them dependent on their ex colonial power which would guarantee political influence and flow of cheap oil to europe . What they did nt count on is that at first in the post WW2 world the french and british position as colonial superpowers would decline and their position on the global stage would be taken over by the new superpowers such as the Soviet Union and the United States . Now you have to understand that Iraq has 3 major Ethnic and religious groups , Sunni , Shia and Kurd . Under the ottoman empire they were seperated in to 3 districts with their own local goverments , Mosul , Bagdad and Basra , and that most or less controlled etnic tensions between the 3 groups . The british unified it under 1 country called Iraq . cut off a small oil rich sunny wahabi part from the south and called it Kuwait , and then put a Hasemite based Royal family in power , They were overtrown in a series of coups which lasted until the Baath party with support of the US took over Iraq in 1968 , at first ruled by abdul but then taken over by one Saddam Hussain , Fast forward to 1980 , Iraq which is currently Sunni governed starts a long war against the fresh out of revolution shia Islamic republic of iran over fears that the new Islamic revolution would expand to the supressed Shia in Iraq . the war lasted for 7 years and left Iraq heavly in debt , the thing is that the US was selling weapons to both sides to keep things even since they thought that a single country controling so much of the middle east oil would be dangerous . After the war iraq was in heavy debt to its creditors and it needed to raise cash , so they decided to call to opec to raise the price of oil , Saudi and Kuwait rejected the idea , and in 1990 Iraq invaded kuwait as a response to the rejection to raise prices . a US lead coalition liberated Kuwait and put Iraq under economic sanctions to prevent another invasion and assure the supply of oil . The UN food for oil program was established to allow Iraq to buy civilian only purpose goods ( food , medicin , infrastructure components ) paying directly with oil shipments , This caused a sharp decrease in the price of oil under the clinton economy which powered the 1992 to 1999 economic boom , oil reached as cheap as $ 9 a barrel . Then Bush Jr reached power , The problem is that Bush and most of his friends are in the oil business ( especialy one evil vice president ) , and they knew that as long as iraq was under sanctions and contained oil will be cheap . in 2003 using fake evidence they Invaded Iraq and overtrew saddam hussain , Now remember the first part of this story about the 3 major etnic groups which disliked each other ? , under the ottomans they were seperated from each other , and under saddam they were suppressed enough not to cause problems , but now with no goverment , and tons of millitary infrastructure from the armed forces of a failed state , they could finaly express their dislike for each other and the " us liberators " as much as they can . TL;DR : the UK and France created a country out of several etnic groups that hate each other , then the US put them under a Dictator , the US then punished the Dictator when he rebelled against them , and in the end they killed him to raise the price of oil to make a profit for members and friends of a highly corrupt goverment .