They want a buffer state in part of the Polish Funnel , a strategically difficult to defend area where armies throughout time have marched through to invade Russia . [ Here is a map ] ( URL_0 ) of European geography . The Mountainous areas are difficult for troops to maneuver through , think of them as natural walls . So it is advisable to control and defend the land behind those walls so enemy troops ca n't slowly amass on your side of those walls . [ Russia has already lost the first line of buffer states , Poland , Czech republic , Slovakia , Hungary and Romania as their first line of countries as buffers after the Soviet Union broke up . ] ( URL_1 ) With those countries lost to NATO , an organization considers Russia as an adversary , and considered equally hostile by Russia , Russia effectively has lost most of the natural geographical defenses . Only Ukraine and Moldova sit behind those natural " walls " that are still not a part of NATO alliance . Moldova is however not aligned with Russia either . The last line of buffers are made up of Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania , Belarus , and Ukraine . However here is even more grim for Russia . Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania all have joined NATO . However , their combined borders shared with Russia are small and can be defended effectively . Ukraine therefore holds a key strategic importance to Russia since She not only holds a key defensible spot right behind the Carpathian mountains , but her borders to Russia would not only open up a second front that Russia would have to defend from Europe , but also a very large border . So therefore , Russia 's ideal goal is to keep Ukraine from joining the EU and NATO , and prevent her from receiving western military bases , troops , and assets . However , Russia might not be able to prevent the entirety of Ukraine from joining NATO , so the next best thing , or the best of the worst outcomes , is to split Ukraine up , east and west , with the eastern Ukraine being aligned with Russia and act as a small , but still precious buffer space . * * TLDR : The walls around Russia are crumbling and being replaced by potential enemies . Ukraine is a huge chunk of that wall and Russia does n't want it to fall too . * * * edit , a better map *