Anime is one of the greatest offenders in this category , so I 'll assume we 're talking about that for the sake of providing examples of the challenges . I 'm aware this applies across the board though as having spent some time in Germany recently I can confirm that the dubbing of English is equally dreadful there . * * Word play . * * Often in a plot arc , characters will give clues or other information about upcoming events ( foreshadowing ) through the use of very specific wording . " I got rid of him " vs " I killed him " . To an english speaker , we make the assumption that " got rid of " means killed . Different countries and societies may use a different euphamism entirely that is not applicable . For example , instead of saying " I killed him " they might ambiguously say " He 's in the sack " . Now we have to assume he really is dead , or he 's been put in a sack for some reason . But if they said " I got rid of him " it would be glaringly obvious . A bit of plot rewriting has to happen here . Alternatively , jokes or other forms of word play can be crucial to the plot , or at least just the joke of the moment , most of which can be lost in translation . The hard challenge here is if a joke ca n't translate literally , it has to be completely replaced . Translators exporting media might not be known for the same brilliant wit and humour as the source writers . * * National perceptions . * * If I was to tell you about a character who is a cold sociopath who 's presence gives you an uncomfortable feeling , what voice would you imagine he has ? Chances are many people in America would have similar preconceptions about the tone and mannerisms . Many Japanese on the other hand may describe it differently . The difficulty here is matching the voice with the appearance to create a well balanced character . If they use the Japanese description of the voice , it 's going to sound wrong in English no matter how skilled the voice actor is . * * Syllables and timing . * * It takes us 5 syllables and around 2 seconds to say " I ate a biscuit " . Some foreign languages it might take one second to say the same thing , others it could take five seconds if those words happen to be overly elaborate . To deal with this , the voice actor hastotalkreallyreallyfast , or possibly slow down a bit by maybe using some or lots of unnecessary words to kind of match the thing that they are saying with the movement that the lips are making . In extreme cases they might just rewrite the line to sound correct and maintain the original sentiment of what was said . Both of these can break a character 's linguistic consistency and snap you out of your willing suspension of disbelief if done wrong . * * Cultural perceptions . * * Different media may be adapted to fit different age groups , and different countries may have different standards for censorship . It 's common in Japanese anime for a well endowed female character to make an insulting remark about the size of a less endowed woman 's breasts . This is also acceptable if the characters are teenagers or children depending on the context . In some anime it 's a recurring theme ( Disgaea , for example . Etna is supposedly over 1000 years old , but she looks very young . ) Having characters that appear to be children talking about their breasts or other sexualized body parts can be a complete no - go area in some other cultures . In these situations the entire conversation may have to be thrown out and rewritten , or toned down . This can result in some awkward conversations that appear to just be filler with no substance behind them . Worse in situations where it 's a recurring joke , in that it may need to be replaced with another recurring joke that matches the characters body and face movements on screen but without any of the verbal content . Similarly , there may be visual changes to deal with . A naked character may be repainted in a scene to be wearing underwear . At which point a comment or joke about their nudity does n't amke sense , and has to be rewritten again . These are just some of the hurdles that need to be overcome when dubbing media for another country .