I think it might help for you to try seeing this from a more sympathetic POV rather than as a case study . This is a partial list made of the reasons people give for staying with an abusive partner , from a blog of someone who was in an abusive relationship herself , and talked to others in the same situation . The entire list is too long to post in one comment , so I 've put the titles here , but omitted the examples / explanations for the ones that are easier to understand . [ Here 's the link to her original full writing with examples for each reason here . ] ( URL_0 ) 1 . * * " I do n't want to die . " * * Her husband has told her that if she leaves he will kill her , and she believes this . ( She may well be right . ) The instant he gets a whiff of where she 's staying -- and he probably will , at some point , from a well - meaning friend or through the legal system or by persistent stalking or random chance -- he 's going to come there and he 's going to do something very , very bad to her . Staying with him may be horrible , but at least she gets to live . She believes that if she leaves , no one and nothing can protect her from his vengeance . 2 . * * " I 'll die without her . " * * He lives in his girlfriend 's apartment . He 's unemployed , or minimally employed , and has no education or good experience on his resume . He has no friends besides her . He 's gotten to the point where he does n't know how he 'll get food without her help , much less navigate all the challenges of life . And if he leaves her , he 'll be leaving everything -- she'll destroy any of his stuff that he leaves behind , stalk him so he ca n't stay at the same job , and even kill his pets . If he leaves her , he 's certain that he 'll end up living on the streets . 3 . * * " He 'll die without me . " * * 4 . * * " What about the kids ? " * * Right now , she protects the kids from her husband . He may rage at her , but she shelters them from the worst of it and she makes sure they have the best home she can give them under the circumstances . If she leaves , she doubts she can get sole custody of the kids without visitation , much less get it immediately . And if the kids are alone with him , something very bad will happen . He 'll hurt them , or turn them against her , or take them away and she 'll never see them again . Maybe all three . Her kids are her life and she ca n't bear to let something like that happen . 5 . * * " I tried once , and it made things worse . " * * This is n't the first time . He did call the cops on his husband before , and he ran away that night . The cops did n't find enough evidence , and when he came back to get his stuff , his husband was ... tearfully apologetic , actually . Somehow he talked him into staying and not taking his stuff . The punishment came later -- once he 'd more or less committed to staying around -- and it was horrible . But he 's afraid that if he tried to leave again , he 'd go through the same cycle again . 6 . * * " I reached out once , and was rebuffed . " * * In a rare moment of courage , he -- with shaking hands , summoning all his strength -- told someone he thought he could trust what his wife was doing to him . They told him to think about her point of view for once , to not use big drastic words like " abuse , " and to take care of his own damn problems without airing his dirty laundry . He just knows that if he reaches out again , it 's going to be the same thing . He 's lucky she did n't find out about that time and doubts if it 's worth taking the risk again . 7 . * * " If I call the cops , I 'll be in trouble . " * * She 's a prostitute . On the side , she sells drugs . She owns guns she should n't have and lives in a place she should n't be . Hell , she should n't even be in this country . Her lifestyle is so far outside the law that any attention from the police is likely to get her thrown in jail -- so she ca n't very well tell the police that her girlfriend beats her . 8 . * * " Run away ? Call the cops ? I ca n't even get away with sneezing ! " * * 9 . * * " If it were so bad , someone would have done something . " * * Everyone knows what 's going on in his life . His friends have seen his girlfriend hitting him ; his parents have heard him say " I ca n't do that , she wo n't let me " about a million things ; the neighbors have heard the screams and crashes when she explodes . He knows everyone knows already , and knows that they have n't done anything even though they know . So , he figures , what difference would it make to tell them ? Clearly they 've already decided that this is n't bad enough to call in the authorities over . 10 . * * " It 's a joke to him , so it should be a joke to me . " * * 11 . * * " I 'm just terrified to hurt her feelings . " * * Abuse has made her telepathic . Years of desperately trying to keep her girlfriend happy so bad things wo n't happen have made her keenly aware of her girlfriend 's every fleeting emotion . Her girlfriend is a tiny bit moody and she rushes to coddle and comfort her ; her girlfriend is a tiny bit happy and she just about throws a party for her . She 's so used to reading her girlfriend 's feelings and translating them into her own that she ca n't stand to do something that would really hurt her girlfriend 's feelings . Just the thought of dealing with that much anger -- when even a tiny amount of anger is a big deal in their house -- is too terrifying to imagine . 12 . * * " I 'm so embarrassed I let him do this to me . " * * 13 . * * " I 've learned to live in her system . " * * He knows all the rules by now . As long as he always treats his wife with the utmost politeness and gentleness , and always has dinner ready before she comes home , always is up for sex when she wants it , and always lets her make the decisions , things are okay . He actually feels pretty safe when he 's being " good . " So it does n't seem like there 's anything wrong with the relationship , because it goes great so long as he does as he 's supposed to . 14 . * * " We 're outsiders ; no one cares about our problems . " * * They 're a lesbian couple , one of them is transgendered , and they 're kinky to boot . She 's had enough problems just explaining to the " authorities " that their relationship exists ; how the hell is she supposed to convey that there 's something wrong with it ? She 's internalized enough prejudice that she figures it 's sort of her own fault for being in such a strange relationship , and she does n't figure anyone cares that much about the troubles of a weirdo . 15 . * * " After all he 's done for a jerk like me ? " * * Her husband has put up with so much from her . This is n't # 13 ; these were genuinely bad things . He helped her pay off the nasty credit card debt she was in . He stayed with her even after she got fired from her job and flunked out of school ; he even bailed her out of jail when she really fucked up . Who could blame the guy if he loses his patience now and then ? She figures she really is a very difficult person to live with , she deserves some punishment for all she 's screwed up , and she should be grateful that he 's kept her around at all . As he reminds her when she 's pushed him too far -- who else would love her ? 16 . * * " She 's really nice ... mostly . " * * Her wife is super sweet and loving . She 's a flowers - and - chocolates romantic , a believer in true love and love at first sight , and she treats her just like a princess . Except now and then , things get tense in the relationship , and bad things happen . Really bad things . Her wife just does n't seem like herself and she explodes . But the apology is even sweeter and lovinger than before and things are good again . Maybe it was a one - off . Or a two - off . A three - off ? Maybe this really is the last time and from now on she 'll just have the nice wife she fell in love with . She 's certainly being nice now , and how could you leave someone like that ? 17 . * * " It just is n't done in our community . " * * 18 . * * " Actually , I 'm abusing her . " * * When she explodes , she does n't tell her boyfriend " I hate you ; " she tells him " you hate me . " She tells him that he 's hurting her , that she 's responding the way she is because she just ca n't take his abuse any more , and he believes her . He 's trying desperately to treat her right , to treat her the way she deserves , and he just keeps fucking up . Often when she 's yelling he yells back -- sometimes he even hits back -- and that makes him more sure than ever that he 's the real abuser here . 19 . * * " It 's not that bad . " * * She firmly believes that real abuse is when they punch you -- and her husband 's only slapped her with an open hand . Real abuse is when they beat you -- and he only yells at her until she cries and then yells at her to stop crying . Real abuse is when they rape you -- and he always makes her say " yes " before he has sex with her , no matter how little she wants it . She recognizes there 's something wrong in their relationship , but could never call it like , abuse abuse , and so she ca n't react to it like it 's real abuse . 20 . * * " This is how relationships work , is n't it ? " * * Her parents ' relationship was a constant cycle of drama and violence . Her relationship with her parents was just as bad . Her high school boyfriend hit her and her college boyfriend made her have sex when she did n't want it . She kinda figures everyone else 's relationship is just the same behind the scenes . All she worries about is how to make the best of an abusive relationship ; while she knows it intellectually , she does n't believe deep down that a non - abusive relationship is possible , at least for her .