French here . I thought I might give some insight on that tragic event . As it has been said , yesterday around 11:30 two heavily armed , masked men rushed into a satirical newspaper , Charlie Hebdo ( " Charlie Weekly " ) , and massacred 12 persons and injured 11 . Some background on the target . Charlie Hebdo 's creation goes back to 1970 , when it succeeded to Hara - Kiri , another satirical paper created 10 years earlier . So yeah , it 's a major title , a big part of our cultural identity , a flagship of our freedom of speech . Indeed , charlie hebdo has a long history riddled with lots of trials from a lot of people they made fun of -and boy , are there a lot of them . They had no particular target and hit on everything without distinction . Muslims obviously , but also christians , jews , politicians , culture , cults ... They spared literally no one . The 12 victims were not anonymous . They were specifically targeted for being the backbone of the paper . They were all famous , some of them having drawned for Charlie for several decades . * * They were all under police protection for several years * * , constantly receiving death threats mostly for satirizing Islam . In november 2011 they published a special edition called " Charia hebdo " ( from Sharia , islamic law ) in wich the prohet Muhammet was " editor in chief " . One of the drawing pictured him facepalmed muttering " it 's hard to be loved by morons " . They were the victim of several attacks , including an arson that burned their office to the ground on the day of the release . We french people love that kind of bold persons , not afraid of pressing were it hurts for a good laugh . We loved them , even more today . Now a little word on the situation here in the aftermath . Two suspects have been identified and are being actively tracked down in one of the biggest manhunt the country has ever seen . How do we know it 's them ? Those morons crashed their car fleeing from the scene , and hijacked another one ... Leaving in the other some clothes and some ID ... The whole country is now on " national day of mourning " ( deuil national ) . It 's an extremely rare situation called by the president , and it 's only the fifth time it 's been called since 1970 . 3 of them were for the death of former presidents ( including De Gaulle ) , the 4th was for 9/11 . All in all , that 's all that 's being talked about on TV since yesterday , and it 's far from being over . * * This morning , a masked man opened fire with an assault rifle in the streets , killing a police officer and severely wounding another one * * . We do n't know much about this event yet , let alone if it is linked to yesterday 's . In a nutshell , I 've never seen my country so shocked , but I 'm only 32 . Here are some of the cartoons that caused trouble to Charlie Hebdo . Let 's not forget them . Let 's not be feared of showing them . Let 's defend the freedom of pissing off morons . [ Mahomet overrun by integrists - " It 's hard being loved by morons " ] ( URL_1 ) [ Love stronger than hate ] ( URL_5 ) . [ If Mahomet came back ... " I 'm the prophet , dumbass " , " Shut the fuck up , infidel " ] ( URL_0 ) [ ( Killings in Egypt ) Quran is shit - it does n't stop bullet ] ( URL_6 ) [ With my new Iphone 5 4 " screen , you can clearly see they ofended the prophet ] ( URL_7 ) [ Stop fucking around with Mahomet ... " I 'm jewish " ] ( URL_2 ) [ Riots in the arab world over a movie about Mahomet - no , that 's just evening news ] ( URL_3 ) And one of the most troubling , the last cartoon of Charb , killed yesterday : [ Still no terrorist attack in France - " Wait " , " we have until the end of january to celebrate the new year " ] ( URL_4 ) . Charb was the head of Charlie hebdo and said in 2012 : * " Je n'ai pas de gosses , pas de femme , pas de voiture , pas de crédit . C'est peut - être un peu pompeux ce que je vais dire , mais je préfère mourir debout que vivre à genoux " * " I have no kids , no wife , no car , no loan . It may be a little pedant to say this , but I 'd rather die standing than living on my knees . " Talk about having balls ...