From a starting point , I 'd say NO , there 's no direct , logical benefit to being puritanical from an evolutionary point of view . My personal understanding is that behavior constrictions rise from how societies tend to control activities based on religious beliefs , traditions with ancient origins and/or ( usually ) rudimentary understandings of reality , not to mention other possible reasons like power dynamics and economic forces , most of them interconnected in a way or another . Think about it as starting as a raw moral code that prevents self destruction through murder and crazy violence and slowly changes and grows to encompass several different aspects of life . Societies develop various forms of limiting and controlling sex precisely because it 's such an important aspect of human life , not unlike there are / used to be regulations on what foods you could eat and when and where you should sleep . Here 's a modern day example : [ On Shabbat , according to Jewish law , there 's a list of 39 types of work that you 're not allowed to do . Over the years , these types of work have been interpreted by different rabbis as technology and lifestyle changed . The end result is that * * you 're not allowed to drive , use the phone , turn on the lights , cook food , or even tear off a piece of toilet paper to wipe your ass**](http://www . URL_0 /article_20923_5 - bizarre - realities - life - at - edge - gaza.html ) - from the humoristic URL_0 Think about it : if you control sex , you control the birth rates of the population , the possible economic and political gains obtained from pre - arranged marriages and even the people 's general happiness . This already presents a superficial analysis of societal regulation of behavior and the forces and causes behind them . [ This website in particular ] ( URL_3 ) is very useful with its compilations of theories and the many different observations and summaries it offers , if anyone 's interested in learning more . One of the possible explanations for the logic behind making certain activities taboo or , at least , restricting them , comes from the understandings of social structure by people like [ Radcliffe - Brown ] ( URL_2 ) . For him , in a simplified view , practices and beliefs in societies always serve certain functions , contributing in a certain way to the success of society . Say you are in a certain technological step and do n't understand the intricacies of pregnancy . Your wife keeps having miscarriages and no one knows why , except for the local religious figure , who has an explanation related to your religion and/or lifestyle ( maybe you did n't sacrifice enough animals ? did n't pray after having sex ? did something the rest of the population is n't used to and , therefore , finds strange ? ) . The point is , people start believing in the religious figure 's instructions , maybe because they know somebody who knows somebody who was healed when they followed all instructions or maybe because everybody 's been following their instructions for centuries already , so why should they stop ? * * TL;DR * * Sex is a very intimate and almost mandatory activity for humans , making it so that it can be done in a multitude of ways and some people might never learn about them , thus allowing for some aspects of it to be found strange or even straight up repulsive ( think homosexuality for people that spent their entire lives thinking about heterosexuality not only as the norm , but as the only logical choice ) . Combine that with the rise of social and religious constructions that mix legitimate spiritual concepts with desire for power and you 've got a subject that is very easy to control and can be very lucrative/ influential . Thus , the answer : no , puritanism does n't usually rise from objectives that favor the continuation of the species , it 's a social construction , although that could mean there 's a psychological * motion * behind it , but not strictly a benefit .