It 's not known , but there is some speculation . Essentially , the various grammatical markers that indicate grammatical gender may be ultimately derived from the language 's words for " man " and " woman " , or " he " and " she " , for example , originally only used for people , then all animals . This then became a way to categorize other nouns as well . Somtimes , the connection is not too hard to understand . For example , in ancient societies there were gods and goddesses associated with all sorts of things . The sun might be seen as having male qualities -- it 's strong at any rate -- and so to the Romans , Sol , the sun - deity , was clearly a male god , which is why , for example , the French word for " the sun " , " le soleil " , is masculine ; the moon , on the other hand , being much more gentle , was ruled by a goddess , Luna , hence the French word for " the moon " , " la lune " , which is feminine . Another way of assigning grammatical gender is by the form of the word itself . Once you have established a list of masculine words and a list of feminine words , you might notice that masculine words follow a certain pattern , while feminine words follow a different pattern . So you allocate new words a gender depending on whether they follow a typical " masculine " pattern or a typical " feminine " pattern . In Russian , for example , words ending in a consonant are usually masculine , words ending in " -a " or " -ya " are usually feminine , and words ending in " -o " are usually neuter . This explains the famous example of the German word for " girl " being neuter . The German word referred to is " Mädchen " . This comes from the ( now old - fashioned ) word " Magd " , which is feminine and means " maid " . The " -chen " ending is what 's called a diminutive , and translates as " little " -- so " Mädchen " means " little maid " , and is where we get our word " maiden " . But in German , all words with diminutive endings are automatically neuter , no matter what they refer to . By this stage , of course , grammatical gender is a completely different concept from actual gender or sex , and is really just a classification system and no longer an indication of whether something is male or female . English has now come full circle , and we use " natural gender " , meaning that women and female animals are feminine , men and male animals are masculine , and inanimate objects are neuter . There are some exceptions ; for example , ships are often referred to as " she " , probably because the crew depends on her to keep them alive and safe , but she can be difficult to control ( these are stereotypical female qualities , of course ) .