Because race is an ambiguous social term , not a biological one . Let 's invent two races . We 'll call then : Blues and Greens . Now , let 's try and define these races * biologically . * Ok , seems easy , right ? Blues are the ones that are blue , and greens are the ones that are green . Now let 's ask ourselves , can these races differ , mentally ? Yes and no . Yes , it may be possible that Blues , statistically , succeed better than Greens based on some sort of test . But also no , because the results of that test , and any statistical difference mentally , * has nothing to do with their race * . After all , we defined their race * only * by their color . Any apparent statistical differences between them in other ways are * * purely coincidental . * * For example , if there was some law that required that Greens were to be lobotomized at birth , then it may be technically true that Greens do not perform as well as Blues on mental tests . But , again , that has nothing to do with the fact that they are Green ( biologically ) . If you altered the circumstances that resulted in the poor performance of Greens , then it 's very well possible they would be on par , or even better than Blues on intelligence , while still being Green . So while we could acknowledge the difference , it would be inaccurate and inappropriate to attribute the difference as some secondary quality of our defined race . What happens if we change our definition , then ? Instead of simply saying that Blues are blue and Greens are green , we 'll say that Blues are a combination of physical and mental traits that are commonly associated with Blues and likewise for Green . This really does n't solve anything and in fact makes it worse . If you incorporate the apparent mental advantages of Blues into the definition of the Blue race , then you 're basically begging the question ; yeah Blues are better , mentally , because you 've defined them to be so . More importantly , since the mental differences are statistical , what do you do when you come across a lower than average Blue , or a greater than average Green ? Since you made the mental ability a defining trait , then technically a dumb Blue * is n't * a Blue nor is a smart Green a Green . It just complicates the issue without resolving anything . To tie this back to the real world , the fact is , we can ( and do ) acknowledge statistical differences among groups of the population with respect to their race , both physically and mentally . But it is not appropriate to then suggest that those attributes are inherent to that race , that race has * anything * to do with those attributes . Race is a poorly defined label , even when you reduce it to a simple acknowledgement of skin color . And it is n't just about political correctness or racism either . Thinking that things like intelligence are qualities of race cloud the real issue . For example , in the United States , minorities make up more of the poorer and lower social and economic classes than whites do . So , as a consequence , the average quantity and quality of education among minorities is generally less than that of whites . So * of course * tests of mental abilities will result in minorities performing statistically worse than whites , * but that has nothing to do with their race . * So if you walk away from that study concluding that minorities are less intelligent than whites , then you 're ignoring the issue of * why * they performed poorly and , therefore , are precluding efforts to try and remedy what is most likely a problem . After all , we can at least recognize poverty and lack of education as a problem that is theoretically fixable . If you just make it a matter of race , you 're basically saying there is nothing you can do about it , it 's just the way they are . And it is n't .