Police are public servants and patrol public areas . There generally are n't police patrolling private stadiums and , where there are , their focus is more on the safety of the public / spectators , not the " performers"/athletes . So if a police officer were to see an athlete harm another athlete in a way that was * * completely , and explicitly illegal * * , they could and should arrest that individual . The issue is that contact - sports are a consenting arrangement between parties . How absurd would it be for an officer to have arrested Mike Tyson after one of his monster , brutal knock - outs ? Then again , why was n't Mike Tyson arrested after biting off a guy 's ear ? The answer , as pointed out in another comment , is that sports largely police themselves . All participants agree to a certain range of physical contact / harm . This " consent " makes much of the contact that occurs not really a " crime " and , rather , becomes purely a civil issue . This means that players who believe that another player exceeded the appropriate level of harm they consented to can bring them to court . There was a famous case years ago out of the NFL where a player was hit after the play had ended and was paralyzed . The judges had a lot to deal with . One of my favorite comments was something like , " In a boxing match , boxers do not get to choose which blows they consent to receiving -- rather , they consent to the entirety of engagement . " Facts that play into whether something crosses a line are ( a ) how often does it happen in the sport ( are the players aware of the risk ) , ( b ) did the act violate the official , enforced rules of the sport , ( c ) what are the penalties conveyed by the sports organization , etc . * * tl;dr :* * " Arrested " is something that happens to people who act in a way that justifies temporarily denying them freedom while the court can figure out if a law has been violated ... in many sports , everyone is a willing , consenting participant which makes it more of a civil issue than a legal one . * * Edit :* * Just to add something I mentioned in a different comment below -- another reason that intentional acts of violence are not criminal in a sport even if they are so seemingly outside the scope of being appropriate is that those acts are usually already handled by some sort of foul / penalty within the game . Hockey , for example , penalizes intentional , violent violations of its rules with varying penalty - box repercussions , suspensions , etc . The fact that specific penalties exist for intentional violent acts is an example of how it * * is * * a part of the game , and it is a part that has been consented to by all parties . Only when it exceeds an extreme , relative level will it become a criminal issue .