I am not a doctor . This is not medical advice , but I have lived with three different people prone to panic attacks and learned this that way : * * What happens during a panic attack * * ( Please note : there may be other things at play : this is the " what happens " that I know about , and I believe is most common , as I know several people who suffered from these . ) A panic attack is triggered by something - often specific to the person suffering , or sometimes they just happen on their own . The panic response ( in everyone ) triggers heavy breathing to get as much oxygen into the blood as possible ready for a fight - or - flight response . However , in a panic attack this heavy breathing ( hyperventilating ) is overdone , and it actually makes it harder to breath . The sensation of not being able to breath causes new waves of panic , and so it continues . * * What you can do * * Firstly , do not panic yourself . The first time I saw someone have a panic attack I thought she was choking on someone , and started trying to hit her on the back . That was n't so helpful , as it turned out . You should be the paragon of calm . A panic attack is not dangerous . If someone really overdoes the hyperventilating they will trigger a " breathing reset " sort of thing , which sorts out their breathing and they quickly calm down . Even if this does n't happen ( which I 've never known to happen ) the worst that can happen is that they 'll fall asleep , but anyway . Secondly , be comforting . One person I knew who was prone to them had flashbacks to a traumatic event that triggered her . By hugging her closely , and talking to her I 'd override her flashback - senses with real - world - here - and - now senses and bring her out of the flashback and she 'd calm down quickly . To her I said things like " You 're okay , you 're safe . You 're here with me now . Look at me , nothing here can hurt you ... " etc ... Another person I knew had more random ones . With her I 'd do the same , but try to get her to focus on deep breaths . With a third person I tried the deep breaths thing , but she said it only made her want to punch me , only she was too deep into panic mode to do so . With her I 'd just hold her , try to say calming things and use the tightness of my grip ( tighter , gentler , etc ... ) to try to subtly adjust her breathing and found that worked . Thirdly , talk to them . Some people do n't like talking about it , but you can talk about how to help them . This means you find out what makes certain people want to punch you , or useful things like the " bring them out of flashbacks " and stuff .