I 'm assuming this us a UK based question ? The word pub comes from the name public house . It originally meant a building that was open to the public to come and relax , socialise and most importantly consume alcohol . Noawadays the name public house means a building owned by a brewery , run by a tenant , for the sale and consumption of alcohol . In UK law you must have a license to sell alcohol , a license to have it consumed on your ( public commercial ) premises and another personal license to facilitate this sale . A pub in the UK is owned by the brewery . They have a tenant that buys the business within the building and then gets to keep the profit made from the sale in exchange for meeting the brewery 's minimum sale requirements . They must buy beer from the brewery and if they do n't buy enough they will be kicked out and another tenant will be found . This leads to , in more recent times , more pubs shutting down due to the aggressive nature of breweries . However you can also have free houses ( woohoo ) which are owned and run by the same person . They are open to buy beer from wholesale shops at a much cheaper price than would otherwise be available through the brewery . This means freehouses generally are cheaper than pubs and can have a different clientele . A bar is normally much more about alcohol than socialising . In a pub it is totally fine , in fact often expected , to sit at the bar with your drink and talk to the other people at the bar . You are of course not looked down upon by finding a private area , that is your choice , but it is often polite to stay and chat for a while . Bars are more aimed at limiting the bar area to sale only , once you have your drink you leave and go back to your private area and socialise mainly with those that you came out with . Pubs will often provide entertainment such as music , darts , snooker and/or pool , with snacks and occasionally food served too . Bars also open different hours to pubs . Because pubs are a social location , in the UK at least many pubs open earlier in the day than bars , sometimes noon , but quite often around 4 pm I have found . Bars are more aimed at night time and weekend rushes and are a more commercial location