As someone who dislikes them all equally , I 'll give it a go . At least no one can accuse me of being biased . * * Conservatives * * - nicknamed the Tories . The larger party in the current coalition government . A centre - right party , and so are interested in lowering taxes and using free trade as a means to bolster the economy . They believe in small government , which under Thatcher meant privatisation of public services like railways , utilities and the mail . These services used to be run by the government , but were sold off to private companies . Under the current administration , they have been cutting the budgets of remaining public services like welfare , local authorities and the NHS at the same time as cutting taxes for top - earners and letting companies like Starbucks and Vodafone away with not paying corporation tax . Basically letting the rich get richer and the poor get shat on . * * Labour * * - traditionally the party of the working class , and up until the late 1990s , the opposite of the Tories . They are a centre - left party , interested in a society in which the rich help the poor by way of free public services , a robust welfare system , and higher taxation for the wealthy . Before the 1997 general election , Tony Blair took the party in a new direction ( " New Labour " ) which similarly appealed to the middle classes as well as the working class . Effectively , he moved the party away from all - out socialism to a more centrist party . The party is now at odds with itself , with some members looking for " Blairism , " a more centrist party , and others still rocking the old socialism . The party does not have a strong leader , they are about to lose swathes of voters in Scotland which was previously a Labour stronghold ( more on this later ) , and do not have policies which could reverse the damage done to the lower classes ' quality of life under the current administration . If British politics was Sega vs Nintendo in the 90s , then Labour are Sega . They used to be giants , now they 're fucking nothing . * * Liberal Democrats * * - The smaller party in the current coalition . Another centre - left party , but a little more radical and progressive than Labour . Since Tony Blair , they have moved to occupy the leftist void left by Labour 's move to the centre . They have always been a little too intellectual and " out there " to engage the working class as Labour did , but they have strong policies on social justice , welfare and the role of local authority . There were a strong third party when British politics was all Labour vs Tory . Since coming to power as part of the coalition , the party has been on a thundering campaign of self - harm . They do n't have the electoral clout to stop the Tories ' harsher policies , and have gone back on their own election promises ( like not raising tuition fees ) . Their leader was once seen as a ray of sunshine in British politics , now he is just Cameron 's stooge . * * UKIP * * - the UK Independence party . The party started as a crowd of ex - Tories who were annoyed by the Conservative party 's embracing of European politics . They pledged to withdraw the UK from the European Union . They do alarmingly well in council and European elections , and seem to draw media attention far greater than their electoral representation should warrant . They have policies on immigration that seem outright racist , and have a habit of blaming immigration for all the country 's woes . People will still vote for them , because people turn to nationalism in times of austerity , sad as that is . * * SNP * * - the Scottish National Party . Speaking of nationalism ... There was a referendum on Scottish independence this year . The pro - independence side lost , but not by very much . The final vote was 55%-45 % in favour of staying in the union . The SNP was the largest party in the Yes coalition ( the pro - indy side ) , and their membership has skyrocketed since the referendum . They are now apparently the third - largest party in the UK , despite only representing 10 % of its population . Scottish Labour were pro - union during the referendum , which many party supporters saw as a betrayal , since they were jumping into bed with the Tories ( properly called the Conservative & Unionist Party ) . Labour support in Scotland has plummeted . Away from the referendum , the SNP do extraordinarily well as leaders of the devolved Scottish Government . They are the majority party in an electoral system that is not supposed to allow one party to hold an outright majority . They have very popular policies like free travel for over-60s , free prescriptions for all , low tuition fees and a student loan system , and a freeze on council tax . They are expected to do very well indeed in the next general election , perhaps representing a majority of Scottish voters at Westminster . * * Plaid Cymru * * - the Welsh national party . Not as popular as the SNP , but not as radical either . They do n't advocate an independent Wales ( despite a lot of Welsh support for just that ) , they only seek to look after Welsh interests in Westminster and the Welsh assembly , which they lead in coalition with Labour . With nationalism on the rise nationwide , they may see a surge in votes at the next election , but not to the same degree as the SNP are expected to . * * Greens * * - as with Green parties worldwide , they have policies of environmental responsibility , sustainability and social justice . I actually like their policies a lot , I 'm even a member , but this is not their time . The Scottish Greens were pro - independence and saw a similar surge in membership post - referendum , but not on anything like the scale that the SNP saw . The Green Party of England & Wales have an elected member and look likely to add a couple more by careful targeting of election seats , but they are n't a party of government quite yet . * * Others * * - there 's also all the Northern Irish parties , which would be an essay unto themselves , and a bunch of parties without any seats right now who do n't look likely to get any in the next election , like the Christian Democratic Party , the Pirate Party , the Scottish Socialists , the Monster Raving Loony Party ...