Turns out , there actually are agencies out there who manage all of this . The most notable being the US Navy . ( I think ? If someone could confirm that that would be great ) Most satellites are destined for geostationary orbit , which is by far the easiest place to manage space traffic . Due to the way geostationary orbit works , any satellite in that orbit will always be at the same height , going the same speed , and in the same direction . Ignoring small perturberances to a satellite 's orbit , you could theoretically line up satellites into a huge conga line that stretches around the Earth , and have it fly around forever without any satellites colliding . In a way , that 's kind of how it works . There is a line of satellites in geostationary orbit stretching around the Earth , filled with all of the gps satellites , all the satellite TV and radio satellites , communications satellites carrying internet traffic , etc , all separated by miles of space between each satellite of course . When someone wants to launch a satellite into geostationary orbit , they pick a spot in this giant conga line and register their choice with the US Navy , then they carefully fly their satellite into its slot in geostationary orbit . Of course , no orbital placement is perfect , and satellites might drift out of their slots , but when that happens , each satellite has on board propulsion systems that can move the satellite back into position . When the satellite is old and outdated , the satellite is usually moved into a higher orbit , called a graveyard orbit , where satellites go to die , and its spot in the conga line goes to another satellite . Other satellites that do n't go into geostationary orbit are usually much harder to control , however , they are watched religiously by workers on the ground . Before any satellite launches , simulations of the satellite 's orbit over its entire lifetime is run , to ensure that the planned orbit will not collide with any other satellites at the same altitude . If a satellite drifts out of its orbit at any time , controllers on the ground will always be there to steer it back into position . Typically when the lifetime for these low orbit satellites is over , they reenter the atmosphere and burn up , ensuring that it does n't become space junk .