Piggy - backing on this question , can you really send Morse with just some kind of percussive sound ? You see in movies people trapped will rap out SOS by just banging on something and I can see how that will work , just because it 's such a familiar pattern . The thing is that the bang only gives you the start of a dot or a dash so how can you tell which is which . It would be very difficult to tell the difference between a word ending with " e " and a word ending with " t " . It seems to me that reading arbitrary messages in Morse with just a banging noise would be very difficult with ambiguity and guesswork everywhere . I know the original telegraph operators discovered that they could hear the letters just from the clicking mechanism but those devices made different clicks to start and stop each dot or dash . I learned Morse myself long ago ( for my amateur radio licence ) but was too slow reading to pass the test ( had to take a limited licence ) . My guess is that the movies are about as accurate in this respect as they are in most other technical areas ; not very . In case the other explanations of OP 's question are not clear enough ... Morse is sent by turning your transmitter on and off rapidly . Depending on how fast you want to send , choose one standard unit of time . Then : * transmitting for one unit is a dot * transmitting for three units is a dash * silence for one unit is separates dots and dashes within a letter * silence for three units separates letters * silence for seven units separates words The transmitter does n't actually send a beeping tone ; it 's just full on or full off . The receiver generates the audible tone , essentially based on how far the tuner is off the transmitting frequency . If you 're 1kHz off you 'll hear a 1kHz tone . If there are multiple transmitters close to the same frequency then you might be able to hear them all and have to distinguish them with your ear . And finally , thinking of the letters as sequences of dots and dashes is bad . Memorising them by writing down symbols on paper is a waste of time . You have to practice by listening to each letter 's rhythm and learning those .