There are many different reasons to enjoy alcohol . In moderate doses , it makes you feel more relaxed , it may have some health benefits , it enhances the taste of food ( the right wine pairing is an excellent complement to a good meal ) , it can taste good on itself , etc . Beer is extremely refreshing in a hot day , and can be warming in a cold day , depending on the type of beer . To young people , it is attractive because it can make you feel happier , more confident , and take more risks . This is particularly attractive if you are just learning how to behave socially , need to make friends in a strange place , would like to start dating , need to relieve stress - all common situations in college , especially for freshmen . But I think that there is a distortion , in particular in the US . Alcohol in college becomes more important than it should be because for most of the kids , it has been such a taboo most of their lives . College is the first time that you may find yourself without close supervision and surrounded by people your age who have access to alcohol . Then you turn 21 and suddenly you can legally have the stuff . As a result , most Americans are completely unprepared for this , when the time comes . They do n't know what they like , they do n't know what their limits are , they do n't know how their bodies will react , and they have to deal with peer pressure telling them that drinking is required and that being wasted is desirable fro some reason . Finally , there is a small percentage of the population who are vulnerable to alcohol addiction , which is something that you really do n't want in your life . It 's like most other addictions , except that it is very visible , very public , and very hard to escape . For all these reasons , my suggestion is simply , be careful . Do n't let yourself get carried away . Put a very small limit on yourself . Go to a party , for instance , with the firm limit of 1 beer . No matter how you feel then , do n't push that limit . After you go home and it wears off , think about it and see if it would be wise to raise your limit next time . No matter who you are , though , more then 4 or 5 beers in one event are a bad sign . Stay away from hard liquors as much as you can . If / when you are ready to try , make sure you do it with a group of friends , and that at least one of you is going to be sober . You will eventually get a hangover , inevitably . Remember that if you feel bad , it 's for a reason - you probably pushed your body more than it was able to go . Finally , remember that in large quantities alcohol can kill . Every year there are reports of kids killing themselves in colleges , by drinking too much and not knowing how to deal with it . As a parent , this is one of my biggest fears . So know that it is not normal for someone to drink so much that they pass out . If this happens to someone around you , be a true friend and try to stop them . If you ca n't and they do pass out , try to wake them up . Take them home , give them a shower , have them drink some coffee . They can sleep after they feel better . Most important , if someone has been drinking a lot , passes out , and you ca n't wake them up , please , please call 911 or take them to a hospital . Yes , there will be consequences , but any consequence is better than your friend dying because no one was responsible enough , brave enough to get them help when they need it . be safe .