The grand jury is a preliminary proceeding for the purpose of deciding whether there is a good enough reason to have a trial . The difference between a grand jury and a normal jury ( i.e. , a trial ) is that a grand jury is a closed , one - sided hearing where the prosecutor is tasked with demonstrating that there is probable cause to believe that a defendant committed the particular crime . Usually , a two - thirds supermajority agreement among the jurors is required to " indict " the defendant ( i.e. , two - thirds of the jurors must agree that there exists probable cause to believe the defendant committed a crime , thus warranting a full trial ) . If two - thirds of the jurors indict the defendant , it does not mean he is convicted . It means there is enough evidence that there should be a full trial . Unlike during the grand jury , at a full trial the defendant enjoys his sixth amendment rights to counsel , to confront his accusers , and to a public proceeding . What I mean is that during a grand jury the defendant has no right to call his own witnesses , nor cross - examine witnesses that testify against him ( or more accurately have a lawyer do those things ) , and he has no right to public oversight . During a trial the defendant has a right to a lawyer , who can introduce evidence and call witnesses on his behalf and cross - examine opposing witnesses in an a hearing opened to public oversight . Also , the trial requires the jury to unanimously vote that he committed the crime beyond a reasonable doubt in order to convict him . This is a much harder standard than the grand jury 's 2/3 's majority vote for probable cause . It 's also worth noting that not all states employ grand juries . For example , in my state a preliminary hearing substitutes for the grand jury . During my state 's preliminary hearings , the prosecutor is tasked with introducing evidence before a judge ( without a jury ) , and the defendant has the right to have a lawyer argue against that evidence and cross examine the prosecutor 's witnesses . In this scenario the judge ( and not a jury ) decides whether there is enough probable cause for the case to go to trial . This is not to say that some states only do grand juries , and other states only do preliminary hearings . My state has certain policies where it will use a grand jury rather than a preliminary hearing , e.g. , where there is a danger of witness intimidation . I do n't know whether my state would use a grand jury for a capital case against a cop . Technically it would be at the District Attorney 's discretion , but it 's probably really just politics . Also , it should be noted that the rules regarding whether or not there must be a grand jury is different in federal courts . The fifth amendment preserves a defendant 's right to a grand jury for all " capital , or otherwise infamous crime[s ] " in federal courts . To sum it up , a grand jury is a process with a very low burden of proof for the purpose of deciding whether a full trial is necessary . Some states use preliminary hearings more often . Serious federal crimes require grand juries . And , some states courts use grand juries rather than preliminary hearings for specific cases .