Yikes .. the amount of misinformation here . Yeah the whole idea of everything moving towards disorder and decay is very poetic and somewhat based in a scientific principle , but firstly that 's the 2nd law of thermodynamics , not a definition of entropy , and secondly I 'm pretty sure a junior engineering student is aware of that simplification and looking for something a little more scientifically rigorous . Disorder is one definition , but a somewhat ambiguous and debated term these days . It makes it easy to grasp at first , but as you learn more can lead to some confusion and the kinds of misinformation I 'm seeing here . Granted I 'm no expert either , but here 's my take : Entropy you can consider a sort of measure of how easily or impossibly reversible a process is . For a more tangible example : an object falling from a higher place to a low place is a relatively small change of entropy . Assuming the system as simply the object , you need to input energy into the system ( pick it up ) to restore it to it 's old state but that 's pretty easy . Let 's say the object cracks during the fall . Well the change in entropy just got a little higher because you got ta do some more work ( input more energy ) to mend that crack . Now say the object shatters into a hundred pieces , it will be even harder to restore it . You 'll have to work to pick up all the pieces , rearrange them back to their original state , and then somehow bind them back together . Thus that 's a much higher change of entropy . And so on .. In physics this concept is important because things naturally want to go to a state of higher entropy ( 2nd law thermodynamics ) , enough so that it can happen spontaneously without outside input . This is what drives so many things , like heat flowing for hot areas to cold areas or pressure gradients in a system tending to equalize or dispersal of particles . Entropy is how you describe that change . In a closed system , if ice melts in water , the ice got warmer but the water got colder , and the total heat / energy in the system is the same ( ignoring heat of fusion ) . In a closed system , if a bunch of grouped together particles dissipate and spread out , the overall mass / density of that system is still the same . So what changed ? And that 's where the concept of entropy comes in as a measure of that change . Um , so that 's more the classical definition . The concept has evolved beyond just physics and I think the definition then really depends on the application .