Languages change over time , but very slowly . You probably do n't speak in quite the same way as your grandparents . Your grandparents probably do n't speak in quite the same way as their grandparents . And so on . If you could go back in time and speak to your great - great - grandparents , you 'd find their language a bit weird and probably sometimes difficult to understand . But they would not have such issues with their grandchildren , your grandparents . And you and your grandparents also communicate just fine . Old English and Modern English are n't exactly the same language , but Old English morphed into Modern English slowly . All down through this period of time , every generation complained that their grandchildren did n't speak " proper English " , but there was never a point where they could n't communicate : there was n't a definite break somewhere , where one generation was speaking Old English and their children were speaking Middle English so they could n't understand each other . We like to put neat labels on things , and that works well most of the time ; but in the real world , things do n't fall neatly into specific categories . We say that two methods of communicating are different languages if they are mutually unintelligible , but the reality is much more complicated : what we really have is a lot of different continuums , and we just decide to draw lines and say , " This side is Dutch , and that side is German " , for example . But listen to some of the dialects of German spoken near the Dutch border and some of the dialects of Dutch spoken near the German border , and they 're actually very similar . So , regarding English , what has happened is that the language that was being spoken in the year 800 slowly changed from generation to generation , eventually becoming the language that is being spoken today . The nearest thing we have to a definite boundary is the year 1066 , when the Normans invaded , introducing quite a lot of Norman French vocabulary and grammar to the English language , but even that did n't happen overnight : it took a couple of generations , during which the Anglo - Saxons picked up some words from their Norman lords and masters , while the Normans gradually came to use the English language . But other than that , it 's sort of still the same language ( in that Modern English is a direct descendent of Old English ) , but at the same time it is n't ( because , as you rightly point out , Modern English and Old English are mutually unintelligible ) .