I actually did a brief research project on the history of english swearing . The Romans are the ones who globalized the idea of " swears " or reserved , inappropriate language . The latin ' profanus ' , from which ' profane ' derives , literally meant ' outside of the temple ' - Romans would shoot their mouths off before entering the sacred space . In english - speaking societies , it was understood by the Latin speaking clergy that certain words were unfit for print in official church records - and yet mixed Latin - English versions of curses still made it into a few . For most everyone else , they cursed often and there was n't nearly as much of a fuss about it . " Fuck " only referred to the act of copulation , and " cunt " was used strictly to refer to the labia or vagina . This is n't to say that this language was n't considered harsh or offensive , but that it was spoken frequently enough in an indicative context that reduces the likelihood of the existence of any social taboo surrounding the acts or the words . Similarly , before public sanitation takes off , there is nothing profane or insulting about mentioning someone else 's defecation or urination - it 's just " shit . " And it 's everywhere . The very beginning of the conception of swears we see today starts around the invention of the printing press . We know from Chaucer - the most highly reputed English author pre - printing press , whose works were some of the first to be widely printed - that cursing was common , as his novels commonly provided realistic ( read : explicit ) dialogue between characters from different parts of England . As the craft of writing develops in the early Enlightenment we start to see far more euphemism , dirty word play , double entendre , and similar devices ( " making the beast with two backs " ) to allude to these topics more lightly . By Shakespeare 's time , there is definitely social taboo surrounding these curses , as none are explicitly mentioned in any of his plays . An important note : At this point these words are considered inappropriate - but they are not yet insults . If you called someone a " fuck " in the 1600s in England - they would have no idea how to interpret that other than your body language and tone . More on this later . Continuing from Shakespeare - English writing becomes more and more prudish in its choice of words through the Victorian Era . Some new , creative applications of old swears start to appear - " fucked " or " getting fucked " gets the meaning of " being taken advantage of " in the 1700s for the first time . Overall , the taboo of these phrases only increases in polite & distinguished society , though elsewhere people probably cursed as much as always . The next turning point is the Industrial Revolution . Here cursing starts to really take off - popular swears begin to take on different parts of speech and they start being used as direct insults rather than just chatter about inappropriate contexts ( " You fucking fuck ! " ) . Fast forward to the world wars , and swearing has become the most popular thing on the planet . Basically creative measures of cursing explode to the point that we start losing track of them all - " bullshit " was Australian or New Zealand soldiers making fun of the British for their keen intent on shining or " bulling " their boots . Other compound curses - " motherfucker , clusterfuck , etc . " appear around this time of bloodshed and frustration with nationalist governments . Basically these wars are responsible for the " is my child or my boss around ? no ? well fuck this then " attitude , and the multitude of curses we can draw from . Is cursing still taboo ? To an extent ... it 's just that our instantaneous communication makes it so that you see it a lot more than you would , and makes it less shocking . Also , cursing does increase your pain tolerance , and there is some interesting information about aphasia ( loss of speech ) and cursing . Patients who have brain injuries that leave them unable to speak , find it easiest to start speaking again through cursing . This and other evidence that curses are linked with the emotional centers of the brain more so than other words suggests that profanity has a lasting purpose in our society - to reduce stress and pain . There are studies that go into Tourette 's and aphasia more to figure out what the neurobiological triggers of cursing are and what it can tell us about our behavioral predispositions . TLDR : ... - 1400 ~ cursing is understood as disrespect to the gods ( or god ) , people curse a lot 1400 - 1600 ~ more educated elements of society start using euphemism , cursing slows 1600 - 1850 ~ growing middle classes begin to take up the taboos of the wealthy , cursing slows more , though creativity and number of curses grows 1850 - present ~ everyone curses however the fuck they want to and most people do n't give a shit