Hey there , aerospace engineer here who has experience in the space industry , and with college level mission design and analysis specifically oriented towards manned Mars missions . Mars one does not have the funding , technology , resources , time , scientific understanding , or technical acumen needed to pull off a mission of the caliber they are proposing . For their mission to succeed , several major things will need to change ; most are completely outside of the organization 's control . First , they will need an exorbitant amount of funds . Their projected plan is to use around $ 6 billion . Not only is this a ludicrously small amount , it 's a pretty sure sign of just how serious their program is ( not at all ) . As a conservative estimate , $ 20 billion is probably a better first guess for development of a Mars surface habitat capable of sustaining 4 people for a number of years . Cost drivers include a complete lack of appropriate Mars EDL ( entry , decent , and landing ) capabilities for large cargo , lack of a properly secured life support and resource utilization loop , launch and in space propulsion costs ( which alone would cost more than their projected mission costs to put several dozen tons of cargo on Mars ) , and other similarly large obstacles that require a good deal of funding well before their company will be able to sell the media rights to anyone ( and as far as I , or anyone else in the public is aware , no one is interested in buying to the tune of $ 6 + billion ) . Technology , science , and R & D : as I 've already pointed out , there are huge technical gaps left to completing a Mars mission , even ignoring the whole " bring your astronauts home " problem . Launch costs , Mars EDL , and life support are only the most visible and ( probably ) most costly examples . There are a huge variety of additional technical hurdles that Mars one has made little to no effort to adequately address . No human has ever spend more than a few days in an environment between 1 and 0 g 's . No one has created ISRU capabilities that are ready for industrial use and consumption on Mars . No one has used machines to remotely construct a habitat in a space - like environment , beyond self constructing satellites . No one has built structures on Mars ; the long term corrosive and erosive effects are not understood or adequately modelable on Earth . No one has sampled Martian soil , or measured it 's effects as a possible radiation shield ; without knowing how effective it is , it 's impossible to determine how much needs to be used to safely accommodate your astronauts , and thus how strong your structure needs to be to support it . No one has studied the psychological effects operating on astronauts embarking on known one way missions ; it is difficult to predict how team dynamics will play out , and how the astronaut 's sanity and productivity will be impacted . I could go on , but I think the point is clear . As far as time goes , their proposed schedule is as questionable as their budget , if not more so . With an initial funding of less than a few million dollars , they plan to have a custom built rover designed , built , launched , and to land on Mars by the early 2020 's . Let that sink in for a moment . This sort of endeavor takes many millions of dollars , and years just to develop . Their reason for optimism ? That they are going to reuse designs . To anyone who 's worked in the space program , this is a dubious way to save time and money . While it 's certainly better than starting from scratch ( in some cases ) , entire aspects of the rover 's design will always need to be re - examined , re built , re optimized , re analyzed , and re assessed for their impacts on the surrounding structure . I ca n't go to Lockheed Martin and buy another Mars rover , for buy one get one free . These things are n't bicycles , they are some of the most complicated pieces of robotic equipment designed and built . Testing alone takes years , unless you have the money to burn and risk to take to accelerate the schedule . And again , almost all of their proposed structures are going to need to be designed , redesigned , built , tested , redesigned , rebuilt , and retested from scratch , over many years and for billions of dollars . Their assessment of and relationship to the aerospace industry is also questionable . A true development plan does not consist of " We will pay companies to design and build components to meet our needs " . You ca n't go to one company , pay for a Mars rover to build your habitat , then go to another and pay for a habitat , then get to Mars and expect them to work together . You need teamwork , integration , cross compatible requirements and design considerations , communication between organizations concerned about intellectual property , profits , and competition , systems level testing and program management , clear program driving factors , and everything else that goes into making a mission like Apollo or ISS or Skylab work . To give one more , truly solid idea of just how unrealistic their plans are , consider this . To get to the moon on Apollo 8 , three astronauts launched atop a Saturn V in an Apollo CSM . The command / service module had a mass of almost 30 metric tons . It could support three astronauts for two weeks , with around 2 cubic meters of space for each astronaut . At the end of that journey , it was discarded . It had no ability to recycle food or water or air , or generate power . And it was launched on that journey by the Saturn V , the largest rocket ever to launch humans into space , a rocket that had more than twice the payload capacity of the Falcon Heavy , Mars one 's proposed launch vehicle . It took the full force of the US government , spending billions of dollars a year for almost a decade , to build the capabilities to travel to the moon , and the tools , engineering base , and equipment involved . Have spacecraft come significantly further in the intervening decades ? Yes . Has our understanding of the problems involved with a Mars mission ? Yes . Are we considerably more ready to tackle the challenge ? Yes . But that does n't change the fundamental variables : you need mass . You need time . You need money . You need expertise . You need launchers . You need organization , skill , planning , coordination , and a bureaucratic machine built to handle the legal , regulatory , ethical , and political ramifications of the mission you are undertaking . These are the things Mars one lacks ; not ideas or enthusiasm or spirit , but manpower and money and influence .