Radiological contamination of this sort means that there are radioactive particles ( long - lived fission products , to be specific ) in the ecosystem . These materials are not so terribly radioactive that they will kill you immediately or even make you acutely ill . They are , however , radioactive enough that if you get lots of them in your body , over a long period of time , they can increase your risk of cancers over the long - term — e.g. over a horizon of several decades . And " increase your risk " does n't mean " you get cancer 100 % " — it just means that probabilistically , your risk of certain cancers ( and other illnesses ) will increase by a certain amount . Birds and deer do n't generally live several decades . So they wo n't die of radiation - induced cancers , because the time of their development is too long . They do pick up radioactive particles in their bodies , which is only a problem if something more long - lived ( like people ) kills and eats them ( [ wild boar hunted in Germany now have to be screened for radiation because of Chernobyl ] ( URL_0 ) ) . People over a certain age are n't going to die of radiation - induced cancers , either — because they 're going to die of just being old , before the cancers can hurt them . Small groups of people probably wo n't get cancer , because the risk factors are n't increased by so much that the excess cancers would be noticeable . So let 's say that the risk increased so that 1 out of 100 people would get cancer . If only 100 people are living in one of these zones , you 're not going to be able to distinguish the 1 extra cancer over the course of those lifetimes — it might not even occur , but even if it does , it is going to look pretty similar to the sources of cancer that come from other sources . The reason that large numbers of people can not live in these areas is because at that point you would start to see larger numbers of excess cancers , birth defects , and other side - effects of prolonged , chronic radiation exposure starting to show up in the populations . So if 100,000 people were living in that area , and the radiation increased their cancer rate by 1 % , that 's 1,000 new cancers — a fairly significant number .