Sexual Dimorphism - Some species of animals exhibit differences between sexes so that an individual of that species can fulfil they 're reproductive and survival requirements relative to they 're species . the differences can vary for different species and there is no set characteristic for males or females . i.e. in mammals ( particularly social mammals ) males tends to be larger and stronger and physically better adapted to aggression and conflict , females tend to be better suited to child rearing ( before I get hate mail of Feminazis this is biology , not sociology ) . In Insects Females tend to be larger and better suited to child rearing , where males tend to be simply used sperm production . But back to your original question , what are the facial differences between men and women ? Sexual selection seems to be one of the key factors in later human development . determine the fundamental characteristics of each sex based on the needs and requirement of the opposite sex . For example , men tend to be larger , stronger and broader shoulders ; conversely women have wider hips , are shorter and have a higher fat to muscle ratios . These Characteristics are indicative that men historically have been considered the better fighters and women he better child carers , and in purely reproductive terms would have influenced the sexual selection of either sex , in laments terms men with more masculine features are more sexually desirable , and women with more feminine features are more sexually desirable . ( generally speaking ) However these selection characteristics have also influenced other arbitrary features that we have associated with better mates . I.e. men having wider , squarer jaw lines , and females having the converse . Women having " softer " facial features and men having " harder " facial features . This is n't an exact science and I based on generalizations , which in turn are based on social perceptions . So a forensic investigator in the situation you provided would have to used assumptions to determine the difference . However I do think there are certain aspects that are absolute , like nose to eye width ratios and so on .