/u / Nygmus has the cause very solidly explained , but the reason why goes a little deeper . When you purchase a pre - order , you 're giving the game developer money for a promise of delivered content . Many times , pre - order sales are driven by trailers and E3 presentations that create a certain set of expectations for the consumer . However , the developer is under no obligation to meet those expectations when they deliver the final product . Watch_Dogs is an excellent example of showing customers one thing to convince them to purchase pre - orders , and then ultimately delivering something that is less than what was shown . They can do this without consequence , because they already secured pre - order sales . By the time the game launched and people started complaining about the graphics being lower quality than what was shown at E3 , and the gameplay being rather generic instead of the groundbreaking experience that was promised , Ubisoft had already secured a heavy influx of sales revenue ... from pre - orders . The push to stop people from pre - ordering is to force developers to actually face the consequences of launching under - developed games . Assassin 's Creed Unity was a disaster at launch , but Ubisoft did n't face any real consequences for such a terrible release ... they already profited from the pre - order sales . Before pre - orders were so common , a game studio that attempted to launch a game infested with so many bugs would have suffered immeasurable losses , and either gone under or emerged from the experience with a powerful lesson learned . As /u / Nygmus mentioned in the case of Assassin 's Creed Unity , the blackout for reviews allowed Ubisoft to sell a broken game to a large number of people . But let 's ignore reviewers as they get early - access copies regardless of whether pre - ordering is a thing . If no one pre - orders a new game , that game 's sales figures will rely entirely on the game 's merit . If the game is good , you 'll hear about it and can go pick it up . If its bad , you 'll hear about that , and can save your money for something else . And that 's the core of it . By not pre - ordering , we are removing the cushion of revenue protection from developers . Without that cushion , they can not risk releasing a game that under performs . This will encourage some developers to exercise more quality control before releasing a game . It will also have the side - effect of causing some developers to just cancel projects that seem too risky . As a whole , its still a net benefit for the consumer . 2014 was a year where a lot of people gave up a lot of money and ended up being given an unsatisfying experience in return . The only way that consumers can influence developers is through their pocketbooks . And the only way this kind of behavior from developers will end , is if they ca n't financially get away with it . Hence , no more pre - orders . EDIT : I should clarify that in my train of thought above , I use the term developers as a rather loose blanket encapsulation for both developers and publishers . Publishers are usually the ones guilty of the above practices I mention , but developers can still be held responsible , and in some cases are even the ones driving the pre - order trend forward . I think both should be held equally accountable . And for what its worth , Indie developers are n't exempt ... early - access could have been a great tool for indie 's to polish and shape their creations into a profitable consumer - oriented product . But 2014 was determine to make early - access as nasty and filthy a word in this community as DRM and Day 1 DLC . EDIT2 : Oh wow , this frickin ' exploded completely unexpectedly ! I 'll do my best to respond to each of you as I can through the day , and thank you kind stranger for the Gold !