Lifelong Londoner here . I 'll try to explain . First , you have one outright mistake in your question , and a couple of points of confusion . The outright mistake is this : " Camden is a borough in the city of Westminster " . No , it is n't . So let 's try to clarify . " Greater London " is a geographic and political entity . It 's approximately 600 square miles in size and has a population of around 8.5 million people . Certain functions , such as transport and many development and economic issues , are considered important enough that there is an elected mayor for the whole of Greater London ( known , unsurprisingly , as the Mayor of London , but we 'll come back to this ) , and an elected body , the Greater London Assembly , which between them set policies . The Mayor and GLA also provide the budget for the police and fire service in London , and have a say in their running . To provide more local representation and deal with less London - wide issues , Greater London is then subdivided into 33 boroughs . One of these boroughs is the London Borough of Camden , another is the London Borough of the City of Westminster ( we 'll come to the reason for it having " city " in its name later ) . But Camden and Westminster are completely separate entities ; apart from the fact that they 're both one of the 33 boroughs they have nothing else in common . Most of the boroughs have an official name of " The London Borough of * whatever * " but a couple are called " The City of * whatever * " . This is because the history of human settlement in the London area dates way , way , back , long before the establishment of Greater London . For example the city of Westminster grew up from about the 10th century , so as the area that was later called London grew it was eventually swallowed up . The borough retains the name of what was once a separate , independent city , however . And then there 's the borough called " The City of London " . This one is special in many ways . The City of London ( the word " City " is * * always * * spelt with a capital in this context ) is tiny . It 's only about one square mile in size . It 's essentially the area that once sat within the old Roman walls of their city of * Londinium * , and today it 's completely dominated by being the headquarters of many financial companies -- so much so that in the UK simply saying " The City " is a shorthand way of saying " financial services companies " , just as in the US saying " Wall Street " has the same connotation . Despite being a borough of Greater London , the City of London has many special privileges and rights , which have been laid down over about a thousand years worth of legislation . In particular it elects its own mayor , known as " The Lord Mayor of London " although this is now a ceremonial position rather than one with any specific power . The City has its own separate police force from the rest of Greater London , has many of its own laws , and ( somewhat controversially ) positions on the City of London council are voted for by the corporations that are based in the City , rather than the ( very few ) people who live there , as happens in every other UK election .