This is from /u / namtara from URL_0 This is way late , but it needs to be said . Jenny from Forrest Gump . She gets so much goddamn flak from people who have seen the movie . It 's like they tuned out completely at the normal human experience just because they think Forrest is adorable . Jenny did n't think she was in love with Forrest because she thought she was taking advantage of him the same way her father molested her . For fucks sake , Forrest is retarded . Jenny , out of everyone who 's ever met him , knows this best of all . She knows that her closest friend and only loved one is a fucking idiot . Imagine that . Imagine for one second that the only person who was always kind to you was someone who did n't know any better . Everyone in the world who knew about your father looked at you either as a victim or as something disgusting , but that one man does n't . And it 's because he 's retarded . Jenny does n't think that way at the start . As a kid , she just thinks he 's different and is just glad to have a friend . But as she gets older , especially as a teenager , she realizes that her closest friend will never mature like she does . He loves her like he would anything and everything else , so long as its nice or cuddly , like a pet or a sibling , at least in her mind . Her father treated her like shit , and there was no way in hell others did n't do the same when they found out she was molested . She would have wanted to feel loved . That 's where she gets the abusive relationship crap . She wants so much to be loved that she does n't understand that they are taking advantage of her . She thinks that as long as they are n't forcing her to have sex , that 's normal . Getting beat on , pressured to drug addiction , and dragged around into whatever dangerously extreme political bands they 're into is just fine , as long as they do n't rape her . That 's why she 's so shocked when Forrest defends her from harm . Why would anyone do that if what they 're doing to her is normal ? She keeps leaving Forrest behind because she convinces herself that he does n't really love her . She convinces herself that his affections are shallow , since he would never be able to really understand love either . I mean really , how many of you honestly think someone who is that mentally challenged could understand the complexities and nuances of love ? There 's no way they could . What they have is something simple , and Jenny does n't think that could be real . And even IF she believed he could , even IF she got out of that abusive cycle , she knows better . FFS , if that scene with Forrest and her in her college dormroom had the genders reversed , people would be so fucking uncomfortable about that scene because it 'd be inching so close to rape . Jenny knows that . She realizes that . That is why she shuts off her feelings for Forrest , above any other reasons to stay away : she thinks she is molesting him . She saw how uncomfortable he was when she did that and thought holy fuck , what the hell am I doing ? Can you imagine how twisted you must feel after realizing in that moment that you turned into the father who molested you ? How the fuck can you love yourself after doing that to your best friend , when you know what that 's like ? Would you ever let yourself get close to them again if you really cared about them ? So Jenny kept running away . Every time Forrest gets close and saves her , she runs off before she falters . She wo n't let herself get near him , and as the movie goes on , she fails a little more each time . First she blows him off after the strip club , telling him to stay away . Then she walks with him in DC , but still leaves with her boyfriend . Then she stays with him in his house and finally sleeps with him , after that one critical moment . When he tells her he does know what love is , and asks her why she does n't love him . She finally gives in and does sleep with him , but can you imagine thinking afterwards ? Would you , in her shoes , with absolute and unwavering certainty , think you did the right thing ? Or would you be afraid that you did exactly what you had been avoiding because you do actually care that much about him ? So she runs away . She hides her child from him , because she thinks he should n't have to worry or pay for something he ca n't handle . She thinks she 's wronged him , and the least she could do is set things right by raising a good child , without dragging him down . And then she gets sick . Doctors do n't know what it is , but she 's going to die . Her kid is only a few years old . Can you imagine struggling with that decision to tell your victim that they have a kid and now they have to take care of it because you 're going to die ? That 's what she struggles with before coming to terms with the fact that she 's happy with him , and he 's happy with her , and that 's what love actually is . It 's something simple and unconditional , and even Forrest can understand it . It takes her her whole goddamn life to figure out that love is just that simple , and she dies months afterwards . She realized she had been running away from what made her happy , and it is n't wrong , and she only gets so much time together before it 's over . And instead of realizing that narrative even exists in the story , people just bitch about how Jenny is such a slut , but she wo n't even love the only person who cares about her . Jenny always loved Forrest , during the whole fucking movie . She loved him so much , she thought she was taking advantage of him and ran away for his sake . She did n't realize she was wrong until it was almost too late . Fuck , that 's depressing . EDIT : Obligatory gushing , but actually I just wanted to add a TL;DR : TL;DR : Jenny thought she was molesting Forrest because he could n't understand what love is , so she either suppressed her feelings or ran away .