Long time lurker , first time poster . So let 's get started shall we ? I speak Mandarin as my second language , and am more familiar with the simplified version . There are two types of Mandarin : simplified and traditional . Trust me , the traditional version is much more convoluted than the simplified one . Firstly , in Mandarin , there is probably no equivalent of alphabetization , at least not in the conventional way . This is n't really surprising , since the characters descended from pictograms - images that convey a message . Thus , you can see that Mandarin characters more closely resemble pictures , rather than the normal alphabets that we see in English . Now then , how do we depict Mandarin characters ? Most simple characters consist of a left side and a right side . In some cases , both sides tell a story . For example , the character 话 is made up of 言(this is the traditional version of the left side ) and 舌 . The left tells us that this word is related to speech , since 言 means speech . The right is the character for the tongue . Put them together , and you get the character for the English equivalent of word . Speech from the tongue = word . Then again , it is n't always so simple . For some characters , only one side tells a story . I 'll take the example raised by /u / pudmedcentury . 姐 is made up of 女 and 且 . 女 tell us that this character is referencing to something feminine . However , as far as I know , 且 does not give any meaning to 姐 . For the record , 姐 means older sister , which addresses the feminine portion . Some characters operate in a different way - up and down . The character 烫 which means hot or scalded , is made up of 汤(soup ) and 火(fire ) . In the past , people probably got scalded by hot soup most frequently , leading to this character . Fire + soup = hot ( or if you are unlucky , scalded ) . There are many more orientations to Mandarin characters , including single words ( e.g. 人 which means person ) , top - left - right ( e.g. 森 which means forest ) , left - top - bottom ( e.g. 祸 which means disaster ) . As usual , some parts have meaning , some parts do n't ( as far as I know ) . There are just too many to list , and as such , I do n't think that Mandarin characters can be alphabetized in an English sort of way . How then do Mandarin dictionaries work ? Every character has a pronunciation , which is translated to English alphabets . So 森 is sen , 人 is ren , 烫 is tang . Basically , all the characters are arranged in alphabetical order , which makes the foundation of the dictionary . However , every translation normally has 4 tones . In Mandarin we call them 声(shēng ) , or sound . In speech , the 4 tones of the same translation sound different , with each tone having many characters . So 汤(tāng - first tone ) , 堂(táng - second tone ) , 躺(tǎng - third tone ) , 烫(tàng - fourth tone ) all sound different and have different meanings , 堂 , 糖 , 塘 , 膛 ( táng ) all sound the same , but have different meanings . Characters in dictionaries are first arranged by alphabets , and within same translations , arranged by tones . This is probably the closest that we have to alphabetization in Mandarin . There are many more aspects to Mandarin , like the fifth tone ( ü ) and the sequence to writing Mandarin characters . This is an incredibly complex language to learn with an incredibly large amount of vocabulary . Feel free to ask any questions or correct any mistakes that I made , or even to ask for the meaning of any characters that I used .