In a live music setting you generally have two people who are behind the scenes making sure the music is at the right levels . The first person ( arguably the most important ) is the FoH , or Front of House . This engineer is responsible for the sound the audience hears . The entire mix is sent to FoH and blasted out from the speakers you 'll notice above the theater , etc . The two most important roles for this Engineer is : 1 . Avoid any type of feedback at all costs , through EQ'ing and Limiters / brickwallers . 2 . Providing a good public mix for the audience . The second person ( the one responsible for those in - ear mics ) is the Monitor Engineer . This engineer is solely responsible in doing two objectives : 1 . To prevent feedback to the artist 's in - ear mix or stage monitor mix . 2 . To provide each artist with their own custom mix to aid in bettering the artist 's performance . Often times , each musician / artist on stage will request a different mix of the live mix in order to help them . For instance , a singer might not want to hear anything in his / her mix but the snare top and the bass drum / guitar . The guitarist might not want to hear anything but the drums and the singer . Likewise , the drummer may only want to hear the bass and the guitars . This ensures that each artist only hears the elements of a track or song that keep them in time and focused . There are many bands who absolutely hate in - ear monitors , and some who can not live without them . Taylor Swift can be found in one of her videos ( sorry , do n't have the link ) taking out her in - ear monitor because she has a huge problem with not being able to focus properly with two mixes . For the early part of her career , you could see her rip out her IEMs multiple times , and it would frustrate the monitor engineer quite a bit , because they were n't sure if she was having issues with the mix or if she just could n't coordinate the two mixes . Other bands , like Muse absolutely love their IEMs . Here 's the IEM mix for Chris from Muse ( bassist ) on Hysteria : URL_1 Notice that there is very little guitar or anything else mixed louder than the metronome track ( what we would call a " click track " ) . These IEMs are fantastic for bands with progressive track layouts or fast - paced - tough - to - nail rhythms . For most house bands , IEMs are not necessary ( especially in smaller settings where the band is close to one another or have their own stage monitors set up . Some bands use both and some bands use one or the other . Protip : When working as a Monitor Engineer that has both on stage and IE monitors , turning down the on - stage monitor volumes when a musician approaches their microphone to sing or have IEMs in can keep from causing feedback loops . When an artist walks away from a monitor , there is no need to have that monitor play , so it is turned down . Protip#2 : IEMs can cause feedback , too ! There are many situations in which an artist 's mix is so loud or turns their head to the side that the microphones can pick up the Monitor Engineer 's mix , causing feedback . This will feedback into the Mon . Engineer 's mix and cause huge issues for both the artist and the Mon . Engineer . Hope this helps you understand the importance of not just IEMs , but the roles of those associated with taking care of those monitors . EDIT : As many have pointed out , IEMs can also provide a method to relay instruction from the Monitor Engineer or other black - shirts ( those guys responsible for bringing the sound to you ) . Think about this the next time you go to a concert . Watch for hand signals or awkward / silly looks the band members might make to someone off stage or even on stage . These could be signals to the Mon . Engineer or other staff to make an adjustment . Here 's an example of when things go wrong on the Mon . Engineer 's side and signals no longer work : URL_0 I 've learned from some of the best in the industry , and they 've told me that dealing with GnR is like a death sentence .