It does n't make sense to folks who ca n't get past the " religion " part . To put it simply , Churches provide a public good , both to the constituent populations and the public - at - large . So , say someone looks at a church . They see a building , with religious people inside , and think " what do they do for me ? Why should they get a tax exemption ? " Three weeks later , their part of town floods . A few hundred people , more than it would be reasonable for the Red Cross to put up in hotel rooms . Guess where the shelter has a high - liklihood of being set up ? The church . Guess who is most likely in the church 's kitchen cooking breakfast , assembling lunch , preparing dinner ? The church members . Churches do a lot of good in the communities they reside in , of all faiths , for all faiths or complete lack there of . If someone walks into a church , any denomination or faith , and asks to see the minister , they 're in crisis : they will see the minister , who will sit down with them , hear what they 're having issues with , and either offer advice and counseling , put them in touch with social and other community services , or help them right then and there . I was traveling cross country and left my wallet at a restaurant a few hours behind me . It was a small town , and I stopped by the local Catholic Church . I told the Father straight up I 'm not a catholic , and he jokingly said " Nobody 's perfect " , put me up in a room of the church for the night , someone took me out to breakfast the next morning , the fueled up my car , handed me $ 40 cash incase I needed another fuel - up , and sent me on my way . I needed help , and they helped out . I drove back to the diner , got my wallet , bought an envelope and a stamp , stuffed $ 100 cash from an ATM into the envelope , and when driving back through town stopped at the local PO and dropped the letter in the mail . If it had not been for the kindness and generosity of a community I 'm politically at odds with , I would have been up - a - creek without a paddle . Could I have gotten assistance some other way ? Sure , but a church is a clearly - visible place to seek guidance , help , or if you 're into it , faith . It was a logical place to go . Do churches turn people away ? All the time , especially if they have reason to believe they 're pulling a fast one on them . As a Red Cross volunteer , we set up shelters at religious centers of all faiths , from Buddhist to Muslim , many times and every time they responded with generosity unbelievable for people who were not of their faith . We can disagree with the faith and politics of any particular faith or religious groups , but more often than not they 're out there doing some of the grimy dirty work helping the poor and affected by disaster , personal and regional . I 'm part of a UU church that takes turns with other churches of other faiths and denominations to house homeless women one night a week . We cook for them , we make sure they have toiletries and things for the night , and stand guard over them while they sleep , and feed them in the morning before sending them off . Some women were there by choice : druggies and the like , others through situations beyond their control . This is why faith groups have religious exemption , and why they always will .