Hi- I 've been a registered lobbyist in the US so I can give you a perspective different than most of the others here . First , when a lobbyist gives money , they 're probably not giving their own money . Instead , they they are giving money from a Political Action Committee which collects money from other donors . Corporations can also have corporate PACs . This is important because lobbyists are speaking on behalf of others . In the US there is a constitutional right to petition government . Donating to political campaigns is also recognized an as expression of free speech . The US also has a strong tradition of legal representation -- Americans generally want a lawyer to advise them on issues in the courtroom whereas in some other , often authoritarian countries , you do n't have that luxury and are forced to navigate a complex legal system you do nt understand by yourself . So when a lobbyist donates money to a politicians campaign , they are ( 1 ) assisting donors to exercise their freedom of speech and ( 2 ) assisting donors to petition their government . Lobbyists are specialists , just like plumbers or lawyers . They understand the byzantine way that a government works and they can provide expert advice about what is realistic , what is ethical and how to accomplish a goal . So , now the question is , does money equal access . The answer , based on a long history of studies is -- yes . Money does get you access . But you can also get access when you do n't give money . And you can be ignored even if you do give money . Getting in the door is really hard and really important . I ca n't tell you how many hours I 've spent just trying to figure out how to get into a room . That said , getting into a room does n't get you anything more than face time . I 've sat across a coffee table from members of congress who loathed the group I represented . Being in their presence did n't get me anything ( other than making conservative members of my group happy that i reached out ) . I do not agree that corruption is getting in the room . It does n't actually get you anything . Getting something is ... well ... getting something . And yes , you do see that some companies are able to getting everything that they want from certain members of congress , but the reality is that * * they were bought and sold before they even ran for office . * * Another thing -- if you talk to lobbyists , a large percentage , i 'd say half , will say that money really does ruin politics . I personally believe in 100 % public financed campaigns and a prohibition on any contribution or in kind contribution . It will never happen , and the reason is not because politicians wo n't let it happen . The reason is that the public wo n't let it happen . Politicians are n't any different than anyone else . They 're just a reflection that people do n't like to see .