A Clockwork Orange is one of my favorite movies ever . I like it for both the aesthetics and the allegorical plot . Aesthetically , the movie is gorgeous . The colors pop and every shot is planned - out and attractively - arranged . Stanley Kubrick was very good at this . The movie is set in a near - future Communist dystopia and the set dressings themselves added to this without being silly or verging into Road Warrior territory . All those weird words Alex keeps saying ; they 're bastardized Russian . I love the look of Alex and his droogs . Rewatching the movie now still evokes the " cool to 13 - year - old me " feeling I got the first time I saw the film . The other costumes are great as well : Alex and the girls in the music shop , Alex 's parents , the writer 's wife ... these contrast with the more straight characters in the truancy officer and prison officials . I also enjoy the moral quandaries presented in the movie . Even at 13 , I saw in Alex and the Droogs the same light as the school bullies of my youth . Some had been raised in abusive homes , others grew up in legitimately - dangerous neighborhoods ( Pontiac or Detroit ) . Despite these scarring pasts , bullies were also frequently just selfish assholes . So , in Alex 's case , to what degree was his antisociality a part of his dystopian upbringing and surroundings and to what degree was he just a sociopath ? By illustrating a potential way for a society to deal with its " incurable " sociopaths brings to light the question of " how do we deal with such people in our society ? " In our world , we just lock them up in prison and throw away the key . In the film , society tries to rehabilitate Alex ( the robbing , wino - beating , raping , murderer ) with the goal of releasing him back into society in a condition where he wo n't commit other crimes . To what degree might this be a valuable thing for our society ? To what ends might we allow ourselves to go to rehabilitate prisoners rather than just locking them up ? In the film , Alex gives his consent for the treatments , though from prison . To what degree is this consensual and to what degree is it based on a difference in power ? In our world , we might not do such extreme experiments on prisoners , but we can apply that question to other relationships where there is an imbalance of power . On a final , lighter note , the soundtrack ! Wendy Carlos was one of the pioneers of electronic music and the Moog synthesizer she used contained elements she built herself . The soundtrack of famous classical pieces performed on the new(ish ) medium of the electronic synthesizer provides a startling contrast .