Yes , broadly speaking . Atoms gain their properties due to their valence . Learning about this is basically most of the first semester of a college chemistry course , but the short version is : Atoms are basically clouds of electrons surrounding a core of protons and neutrons . The clouds of electrons behave in a way that is random , but overall very predictable , and they try to form a pattern that resembles a shell of electrons composed of sets of four pairs to make an octet . Bigger atoms have many shells of eight , smaller ones may have only one ( or fewer than one complete shell ) but it 's only the outermost shell that really matters for bonding and chemical properties . When two elements bond , they share an electron or two to fulfil their octets . Different atoms as you go down a row of the periodic table have different numbers of valience electrons in their outermost shell . These are what make atoms react differently . Lithium , sodium , potassium , etc , have one atom in their outermost valience shell - that means they want to bond very much with something that can fill their shell . If you put sodium in water , it rips the water apart , and causes an explosion as the oxygen and hydrogen heat up . Likewise , flourine , chlorine , iodine , etc , all have seven electrons in their outer shell - they want badly to fill with things with only one electron , like hydrogen . That 's why these elements can make such powerful acids - it 's very easy for them to steal a hydrogen from water . Carbon has four electons . It ( and silicon , to a lesser degree ) is the whore of the elemnts . It loves to bond with a lot of stuff becuase there 's so many ways it can make pairs . Oxygen has six , so it loves to double bond ( share two pairs of electrons ) with carbon , or one each with hydrogen ( to make water . ) Finally the nobel gasses come complete with eight already . That 's why they hardly ever bond with * anything * . There 's more to this explanation than just that - radioactivity , transition elements , metals , different levels of valence shells , different types of bonds , subatomic forces , resonance , etc , but that is basically an entire chem course worth of information . But valence electrons are the most important thing overall .