There different kinds of taxes and it is very difficult to find a country without a single one of the major categories . The most common types of taxes are corporate * ( paid by large companies ) * , income * ( paid by people earning salaries depending on the specifications in every country ) * and sales * ( also called VAT , charged by the govt . on most products that people buy ) * tax . although there are other types of taxes like import duty , the three I 've listed are the ones that most people talk about when they refer to a no - tax state . There are currently [ 7 countries without income tax ] ( URL_0 ) and [ nine without corporate tax ] ( URL_1 ) . Each of these countries benefit fro their policies in some way . Most of the countries without income tax are oil - rich gulf states . Qatar is an excellent example with no income and sales taxes and not that much corporate tax . But it is also the richest country in the world per capita ( this means that if every govt . in the world divided its money equally to all of its citizens , the people from Qatar would be the wealthiest ) . Put simply , the government generates so much revenue through oil exports that it does not need to tax its citizens . This is the same case for most other oil - rich gulf states . Another group of countries with no - tax policies are tiny island nations like the Bahamas . for these countries , the populations are small , easing the government 's expenditure and they rely a lot on foreign investment , making it necessary for them to lure investors with favorable tax policies . To place this into context , the Bahamas actually sells citizenship for about $ 200,000 . To attract foreigners , it removes taxes so that they can run their businesses in the country with a lot of ease . By attracting these foreign investors , the govt . generates employment for the citizens and improves the socio - economic conditions in the country . Apart from the oil - rich countries and those trying to attract foreign investors , you also have Brunei , which is a very unique case as it tries to keep its citizens as happy as possible . The country actually calculates success through Gross Happiness rather than the usual GDP . AS such , the country keeps taxes at a bare minimum to increase happiness . In short , that is how a no tax policy operates in most countries that people usually refer to . However , all countries collect some form of taxes from different places . The " no - tax policies " just refer to the major types that I listed at the beginning .