Professional software engineer here . The most common types of bugs are : 1 . A logic error . These are most often just mistakes made by the programmer . The mistake might be because the programmer had a momentary lapse of concentration or because they did n't quite understand something . For example , testing that two things are equal when the test should have been if they are * not * equal . 2 . Lack of or poor error handling . For almost everything that can be done in software , there are at least 3 other ways in which that might go wrong . Trying to write to a new file , for example , might fail if a file with that name already exists , if there are permission problems , if the disk is full or a quota is exceeded , if another program is simultaneously trying to write to the same file , if the file system has become corrupt , if the system is running out of memory and a whole host of other things . Handling these cases is an important part of writing a program , but because many of them rarely happen in practice and programmers can be lazy , they 're not handled correctly or at all . So most of the time the program works fine , but on the rare occasion when the disk is full , for example , the program does n't properly check for and handle that error and does something unexpected . 3 . Mismatching expectations from different programmers . Often programs contain code written by more than one programmer , and these different pieces of code must work together . Well engineered software is broken down into separate independent components that can be independently designed , implemented and tested . Sometimes when two components that appear to work fine independently are used together , something goes wrong . They might both be stepping on each other 's feet by fighting over the same resource or one might try to use the other , but expect it to work slightly differently from how it actually does . 4 . The programmer makes assumptions that are not necessarily true . They might be true on the programmer 's own system where the program works fine , but if the program is run on a different system , it might fail because the assumptions are no longer valid . For example , they might assume that another program is already installed , or that the OS is installed to the C:\ drive .