There are a few of things that make Chernobyl still far more radioactive than Hiroshima and Nagasaki . First , the bombs actually did n't use very much radioactive material , all things considered . A nuclear reactor consumes much greater quantities of fuel than does a bomb , since the bomb is made to go BOOM and then be done with while the reactor needs a long , energetic , sustained reaction . Second , the fissile material in the atomic bombs was vaporized . I do n't mean that it disappeared , completely , but I mean was turned into plasma in the explosion . This pushed it much higher in the atmosphere and spread out the material over a huge distance . Without large concentrations , what little radioactive decay takes place over time ( remember that U235 and P239 have fairly long half lives and do n't release a ton of highly energetic particles when they do decay ) quickly became nominal compared to the standard background radiation . Third , very little of the fuel actually turned into the more dangerous radioactive intermediates . The percentages of the fuel actually consumed in those bombs is minute - more modern nuclear weaponry may leave longer lasting radiation . So that 's what happened in the bomb areas - Big releases of radiation at the time of explosion , but not much retained in the soil and region afterwards . In Chernobyl , on the other hand , large quantities of highly radioactive material were released into the atmosphere because of the heat from the fire generated . This includes radioactive steams ( heavy water ) , irradiated metals , intermediates , large quantities of spent and active fuels , the works . These were concentrated on the town , and were n't largely consumed in a big nuclear boom - most of those materials do n't actually go boom either . As a result of the varying half lives and the extremely large quantities of material in the area , it 's still very radioactive , especially near the core which got a logarithmically greater dose than the surrounding areas .