Because work goes on virtually every hour of every day in high rises . The office critters occupy and push papers and make up money during the daylight and sometimes into the evening . And Overnight / early morning there are cleaning crews maintenance / repair crews and construction crews and security people wandering about . The tenants in highrise office buildings are constantly changing , whenever a new tenant moves into a floor or subdivides a floor into multiple offices the work on the build out ca n't happen during the day since office critters would get upset if construction men were walking all over their desks and shifting stuff around while they were there . My company occasionally does high rise tenant finish and when the tenant wants a new break room or two , and the executive wants a private bathroom in his corner office then things need to be happening on multiple floors at once . The drainage piping needs to be run on the floor below , which is likely occupied . To install new drainage plumbing in a high rise a large X - ray machine needs to be brought out and shoot beams of radiation up towards the slab to find what locations are available for drilling , ( this needs to be done from the floor below ) then we bring out large core drills which make lots of noise and spray mud everywhere , which requires us to cover all the office folks computers and desks / cabinets and family photos with tarps so when they get back in the morning they do n't know we were romping around their office the previous night . Then we need to take the ceiling grid panels out from the occupied floor and bring in the equipment to install the new piping . Doing any of this during ' working hours ' , everything from bringing in large radiation machines and blasting them between their desks , to covering everyone with tarps and spraying them with mud which making a racket , would piss loads of workers off . Work like what I 'm describing will mean that three floors are completely lit up for the entire night shift , if it 's a 35 story building and 2 - 3 floors are being re - finished and there are two cleaning crews and a security / maintenance crew going around as well then that would mean 10 - 12 floors at a time minimum are lit up so people are able to work . Tl , DR : If the lights are on on a certain floor of a highrise , there are people doing some form of work on that floor , if there are no lights or the lights are dim then the floor is unoccupied at that time . I 've also heard rumors that tall buildings need to keep a certain amount of floors lit up so aeroplanes can see then easier and gauge their height / distance at night . Though I think this is less likely than work going on , tall buildings have those flashing red lights up top for planes .