This goes back to the time when U and V were actually the same letter ; so , in fact , were I and J. This is what the classical Latin alphabet looked like : A B C D E F G H I K L M N O P Q R S T V X Y Z But in handwriting , it looked a bit more like this : * a b c d e f g h j k l m n o p q r s t u x y z * Notice that in the capital letters , there is no J or U ; and in the cursive letters , no * i * or * v * . Instead , you had the following capital / cursive pairs : I*j * and V*u * . So the name " Julius " would , in Latin , be carved in stone as " IVLIVS " , but written by hand as " * juljus * " . These letters could be used as vowels or consonants ; so the letter " I " as a vowel had a sound like the " i " in " sit " , and as a consonant a sound like the " y " in " yes " ; the letter " V " had as a vowel a sound like the " u " in " put " , and as a consonant ... well , it was either like our " w " , or like our " v " . The smart money is on " w " , but there were no tape recorders in those days so we ca n't be sure . But a word like " * uacuum * " might have been pronounced " wack - woom " , and explains why our word " vacuum " has two Us in it . The phrase " * uenj ujdj ujcj * " , which we usually spell " veni vidi vici " ( " I came , I saw , I conquered " ) might have been pronounced " wenny weedy weeky " or " wenny weedy wee - chee " ( again , we ca n't be sure ) . When the Roman alphabet was used to write other languages , those other languages often had sounds that did n't exist in Latin . Sometimes they added extra letters ( for example , the letters Ð and Þ , which are still used in modern Icelandic ) , sometimes they put two or more letters together to make a new sound ( for example , our TH ) . For some languages , a new letter was created by doubling the letter V -- so VV ; or , in cursive , * uu * . Hence the name , " double - U " . But additionally , the letters I and V were " split " , to make two versions of each -- originally , one for the vowel and one for the consonant . So the letter I*j * was split to make Ii for the vowel and Jj for the consonant ( which in modern English is now pronounced differently -- in modern German it 's still pronounced like our Y ) ; V*u * was similarly split to make Uu ( vowel ) and Vv ( consonant ) . The W took on the form of the V , but we kept the name " double - U " . This is actually appropriate , because the English " w " sound is , in effect , a very short " u " sound . Languages like French did n't originally have this letter , because it was n't needed -- except for writing foreign words , like " le weekend " . But since the W now looks like two Vs , the French called it " double - V " . Incidentally , although you might not think it , the sounds of " W " and " V " are , phonetically , very closely related . Native English speakers can hear the difference so clearly they do n't realise how similar they are ; many Germans , however , find it very difficult , and often confuse the sounds , saying " wiolin " instead of " violin " , for example . Both sounds are also very closely related to " U " .