The greatest benefit to height is in the event of a fire . Higher ceilings allow more time for smoke and heat to accumulate before affecting things closer to the floor ( e.g. , people , fire load / combustibles ) . The height also can allow for fire suppression systems that cover a greater area with fewer components , such as sprinkler heads . In addition , it is generally easier to control the climate in a larger space with larger air volumes ( exchanges per hour ) that are not as noticeable in one spot . ( Except for those annoying freeze - or - fry areas where air flows are concentrated . ) The air handlers in these systems can also be configured for use following a fire to assist in evacuating smoke from a building , either by exhaust or pressurizing the building ( negative and positive pressure ventilation , respectively ) . Construction costs would tend to be slightly higher because of the longer ( higher ) columns required , which in turn need to be stronger because of ( typically ) larger roof systems such as bar joists or trusses . Such costs can be somewhat offset by reducing the number of columns required . When designers are tasked to create ' open space ' , regardless of low or high ceilings , larger columns with stronger roof systems allow column spacing to be increased , thus ' opening ' the space . However , this is not always the case , such as in multi - story structures where significant weight / loads on higher floors require different column sizes or spacing ( e.g. , airports , parking ramps , hotels ) . Operating costs do tend to be higher , but it is a trade off on the desired space / affect and what is considered reasonable operating expense . Such factors are taken into consideration during the design phase of projects , so the owner / operator knows early - on what to expect . These factors also contribute to changes in a design if costs are deemed to be unreasonable or exceeding targets / goals . Source : Engineer by day , Firefighter by night . Edit : Additional information regarding costs .