Shelter is expensive . There are basically three options to have shelter : * ( a ) Free shelter ( from someone else who is paying for it ) * ( b ) Rented shelter ( temporarily having possession of property that is owned by someone else ) * ( c ) Owned shelter ( the property is yours ) Let 's say Bob wants shelter . Charlie owns a home . If Bob wants to live in Charlie 's home , he may offer to pay rent every week / month in order to have permission to live inside of Charlie 's property . The relationship between Bob and Charlie is called a " landlord - tenant relationship , " and has its own laws and rules that each must follow . In the end , though , Bob is responsible for compensating Charlie for a % of the value Charlie has lost in his home ( because now he must share a part of it with Bob ) . This payment is a fraction of the value of Charlie 's home because Bob only enjoys a fraction of its benefit . One day , Bob decide 's he loves the home but dislikes living with Charlie . It so - happens that Charlie is looking to move to a different state . Charlie offers to sell his home to Bob for the " fair market value " ( what the average buyer would pay ) of his home : $ 200,000 . Like most people , Bob does n't have $ 200,000 , so he goes to find someone who does ( a " lender " ) . The Lender , usually a bank , has a lot of money and it makes money based on loaning it out to people . There is a cost to a loan . If a Lender gives you a $ 100 loan , due in a week , at 10 % interest , then in 1 week you will need to pay the Lender back $ 110 . In exchange for you having access to $ 100 immediately , the " cost " of the service was $ 10 . Here , the Lender will look at the potential deal between Bob and Charlie . They will see that Charlie has a house worth $ 200,000 , and Bob is willing to promise to buy it and pay for it over time . Using various calculations , risk assessments , and other economic factors , the Lender decides that Bob is worthy of a loan . It is common for Bob to have to pay at least a portion of the $ 200,000 ( 1 to 3 % ) , but the rest of that $ 200,000 will be paid from the Lender to Charlie on behalf of Bob . Once everything " closes " ( finalizes / goes through / is paid ) , Bob now owns Charlie 's house , * * subject * * to a mortgage owned by the Lender . In this case , Bob is paying $ X per month for 30 years with an interest rate of Y% . After 30 years , Bob will have paid well over $ 200,000 for the home ... how much over depends on the interest rate and his initial cash payment . Bob loves his house . He is making his mortgage payments , and life is good . In fact , 3 years later , there is a boom in the housing market and Bob 's house is now worth $ 400,000 . This means that if Bob were to sell his house today , he would be paid $ 400,000 and , from that , he would pay off the remainder of his loan to the Lender and make a profit of , say , $ 200,000 ( for the sake of keeping things simple ) . But what if Bob does n't want to sell the home ? That unrealized profit of $ 200,000 is called " equity . " Bob may want to " cash - out " on that $ 200,000 in equity in order to invest it in other stuff , which would require the Lender to agree to " refinance " ( modify ) the original agreement . Now , Bob owes $ 400,000 on his $ 400,000 home , but has received $ 200,000 cash . The most common reason to refinance , though , is a change in interest rates . Remember that when the Lender originally reviewed Bob for a loan , it made its offer based on many factors . Over time , those factors can change considerably . If , for example , the Lender had given Bob an interest rate of 10 % , but now interest rates are at 5 % , then it would save Bob a lot of money to negotiate with the Lender in order to reduce the interest rate to 5 % . Does the Lender need to ? No . Bob and Lender have an agreement already . However , if the Lender can figure out a way to increase its profit on the agreement ( for example , if the house is now worth more money ) , then it will be worth it to agree to receive less money in mortgage in exchange for a more valuable security . In other words ... remember how Lenders make money by lending money ? They do n't want Charlie 's house . So if Bob decided to immediately stop making payments on his mortgage after buying it , then the Lender would have been stuck with a $ 200,000 house that it paid about $ 200,000 for . But after 3 years when the house is worth $ 400,000 , if Bob stops making payments then the Lender has the ability to quickly recoup the money it is owed from the sale of the home , even if it has to sell it slightly below market value . So Refinancing provides a way for Bob to use the increased value of his property to reduce the cost of his loan to Lender because the increased value of the property also reduces the risk to Lender that it will be able to get the money it is owed . For the Lender , best case scenario = Bob pays the exact amount of money agreed upon within the time frame agreed upon . Worst case scenario = Bob fails to pay , but Lender will be able to sell the home to someone else that will pay that bill . * * tl;dr :* * Refinancing takes into account all the various factors that have changed since the time an agreement was originally made and adjusts the agreement in a way that is mutually beneficial to the borrower and the Lender .