I think it goes without saying that government is n't really anything like personal debt but it might help put things in perspective using a more familiar idea we can grasp . Part of the problem with the perception of our debt being a big problem is that the numbers are big . Mind bogglingly big . Scary big . Our debt is roughly $ 17,000,000,000,000 . And , yes , that is a big number . But let me show you another number : $ 17,000,000,000,000 . Why , yes . That is the same number . $ 17,000,000,000,000 also happens to be our Gross Domestic Product or GDP , which is what our country produces in a year . Think of the GDP as our annual salary as a country . Now if you met a person who made $ 170,000 a year ( a much easier number to get your head around ) and that person was in debt to the tune of $ 170,000 say with a house a couple of credit cards and that person always paid all of his bills all the time , most people would say that person has very good credit and is n't at risk of going bankrupt and would likely be a particularly good candidate if they decided to get another loan . And so long as their income grows proportionally with their debt and they keep paying their bills , they 'll continue to be a safe bet to continue to receive loans . In other words , if their debt rose to $ 200,000 , that 'd be okay if their income was also in the neighborhood of $ 200,000 . Now what you want to know is : Can the debt ever be repaid ? And the simple answer is , " yes , but you would n't really want to " . Keeping our house metaphor in tact for the time being , if we wanted to get out of debt , we could pay less for the stuff we use and use the difference to pay down our debt . But there 's a problem : What do we cut ? Food ? Medicine ? Clothing ? Home Security ? Everything we 're spending money on we more or less need . Sure , we could nibble around the edges and find a few dollars here and there , but not enough to make a really big difference . Going back to our full scale US debt , it sounds good to say you 're going to cut our $ 10 million budget for ketchup research or $ 6 million in pork for a courthouse in Milwaukee , but that 's like saying you 're going to pay off your mortgage by rummaging around for spare change in your couch . When trillions are on the table , millions wo n't cut it and billions will barely touch it . Which is n't to say it 's impossible . Just about 20 years ago the Clinton administration had a plan to pay down the national debt by raising taxes and cutting spending . According to that plan , we would have paid off the national debt by the far off future year of 2011 . Unfortunately , when we went to war in Afghanistan and Iraq in 2002 and 2003 , that added expense sidelined the debt repayment and ballooned our debt . And then in 2008 and 2009 the financial crisis happened and various stimulus packages and tax relief packages meant our debt ballooned again . It 's really been a lousy decade for debt and deficit . But have no fear : Should we do the obvious yet politically suicidal thing of raising taxes and cutting spending we can get our debt under control again ( until the next big crisis , at least ) . But we do n't want to pay it off , mostly because a lot of our debt is n't owned by foreign countries : it 's owned by people like you and me in the form of government bonds . ( Basically you buy XX in IOUs from the government and they 'll pay you back XX plus interest after a given amount of time and these are generally seen as safe but low(er ) return parts of many investment portfolios for individuals and businesses . ) If the government is debt free , that means there are no bonds to invest in , which is n't very good for the economy . Economists might disagree on how much debt is good and how much is bad but most would agree that it 's best to have some . So that it . Our debt is big , but it 's not concerning because it 's about the same size as our GDP . It should probably be at least a little smaller , which is simple and hard because everyone knows what needs to be done ( higher taxes and lower spending ) but nobody is willing to do it . But much like needing to lose weight you ca n't just exercise more OR cut calories , you 've got to do both . And while we could one day , 20 , 30 years from now slowly get to zero with modest cuts and tax hikes , we do n't really need to or want to because it would mean lower , slower economic growth as a nation and fewer quality investment opportunities for individuals and businesses .