First of all , keep in mind " smart " just means you learn quicker than most . You 're not a born trivia genius unless you explicitly study trivia . A lot of it has to do with social pressure , especially if your parents and such think you 're more intelligent than normal . " Oh , he 's such a smart kid , " etc , etc . You start playing into expectations , using ' big words ' because A ) you can suss out their meaning from context clues faster than most people and B ) because people expect you to . Eventually you become the " big words " kid . You 're a nerd if you 're in regular public school . If you get officially ID'd as having a high IQ and placed in programs then you kinda lose that identity and end up surrounded by a small group of brats who are convinced , by themselves and their parents , that they 're the smartest people ever . There will be pressure to perform better than most academically , regardless of your penchant for studying . Personally I found this insufferable . Outside of the early social part you likely have a better memory . People will casually mention something in passing and forget about it , but you 'll reference it with ease . This weirds some people out . You make connections normal people do n't , so you 'll have a lot of inside jokes running inside your head because one thing reminds you of another but explaining the connection would take 5 minutes , far past how funny the joke is . You probably have anxiety or depression or something resembling ADD , just because your mind wanders more readily and over - processes everything . Personally I 'm convinced that being human requires a certain amount of psychic energy and having a high IQ generates a surplus which can be destructive if you 're not engaged all the time . Games are good ( board and video ) because the ruleset and journey towards mastery gives your brain a chewtoy . You generally pick up on games faster than most . You are probably generally smarter than the people you work for . This can lead to frustration when they make decisions you do n't agree with because whether you 're more correct or not you get the nagging sense that you probably are . But everyone 's different and there are different IQ types ( some people are kinetic types and adapt to sports extremely well ) so keep in mind that 's just my personal experience , with a modest mid 140 's .