It 's complicated because the US Senate has a lot of somewhat quirky procedural rules that let Senators manipulate the system if they understand them well enough ( or fall into traps ) . In this particular case , there 's a combination of two issues here : ( 1 ) the federal budget , and ( 2 ) Obama 's executive nominations . On ( 1 ) , the Senate had to approve a funding bill by Saturday night , otherwise the government would run out of money and have to shut down again . So the leader of the Senate Democrats , Harry Reid , and the leader of the Senate Republicans , Mitch McConnell , made a deal to vote on Friday to pass funding for enough stuff to tide the government over until next Wednesday . Then everyone would go home for the weekend , and come back on Monday and finish passing the " full " funding bill . HOWEVER , under Senate rules , you have to wait a certain number of hours before voting on a bill , unless EVERYONE agrees to waive the rule . Since the Friday tide - us - over bill was a new thing , Reid and McConnell needed everyone on board so that they could pass it and go home . That 's where Cruz got involved . He basically said , " Reid , McConnell , you agreed that on Monday we can pass this symbolic thing saying Obama 's an unconstitutional tyrant Kenyan Muslim socialist , or whatever , but that 's not good enough - we have to do it NOW . " So he and Mike Lee refused to go along with waiving the time requirement . So that meant that everyone had to stick around until late in the night Friday / early Saturday morning to finish the budget thing . And that 's where item ( 2 ) comes into it . That extra time that all the Senators were sitting around gave Harry Reid the chance to keep the ball rolling on Obama 's nominations that have been stalled . Because he was able to move 24 of the nominees to the next procedural step , that means the can get voted on earlier next week . If they HADN'T moved that step forward on Friday night / Saturday morning , they would have had to do it on Monday , which means that the next step would have come at the end of next week , instead of the beginning / middle . And if they came at the end of next week , there 's a much better chance that a lot of Senators would be gone home for Christmas , and when they come back next year the Republicans will be in charge and they probably wo n't get passed . So basically , Ted Cruz pitching a meaningless hissy fit made it a lot more likely that a bunch of Obama nominees will get confirmed . Bravo , Ted .