The things you need to keep in mind are : * the structure of the meat i.e. how its cells are arranged . * the living environment of the original create e.g. caught in the wild , or raised on a farm . * the types of parasites / pathogens that the creatures are likely to be exposed to . The structure of the meat is important because it determines how easily / deeply any pathogen ( e.g. salmonella , e.coli ) can penetrate into the meat . For example chicken meat is basically a sponge . This means things like salmonella can penetrate deeply into the meat , which means you must cook the meat thoroughly in order to ensure safety ( the risk is low , but high enough to warrant this precaution ) . Beef on the other hand ( whole cuts at least ) are practically bulletproof as far as meats go . This is why you can have beef tartare , or steaks with barely a sear . The risk is comparatively much lower overall , and even if there is any harmful bacteria , it is unable to penetrate deeply into the meat - allowing you to quickly sear the meat and leave the center raw without any problems . This is also why you can easily dry age beef with few problems Ground / mince beef is technically riskier , but compared to most other meats the risk is very low ( hence tartare is on the menu ) . Fish , pork , and all wild meats can contain parasites ( with varying degrees of risk ) , which means extra care must be taken before safe consumption . Bear is so risky it is never eaten raw , while venison can be cooked to a lower temperature if handled properly beforehand . Raw fish is fine because most commercial sold fish is frozen beforehand to kill off any parasites . The same is done with pork generally , but because pork meat is still more " spongy " like chicken rather than " layered " like beef - you still have to cook thoroughly to remove the risk of bacterial contamination . Pork however can be safely dry cured when raw , as long as you use salt , sodium nitrite ( to prevent botulism ) , and the right environmental conditions ( temp / humidity ) for the cure to take place safely . Hence why you have salamis and serrano / prosciutto crudo ham . Overall - the important thing to remember is that * there is a reason * these recommendations exist * . Even though generally the risk is exaggerated through public policy ( for good reason ) , the risk is still present - so healthy adults may risk it with relative safety - but pregnant women , young children , immuno - compromised people , and the elderly should never take the risk . Hope that answers everything for you .