Disregard temperature and disregard people huddling together inside for a moment . First off , remember that the flu virus changes every single year . Yes , some years you may hear it 's mainly " A " or " B " or " H1N1 , " but the specific little virus changes every year . It 's not just making circles around the globe . 2013 's flu viruses did their damages , and eventually enough people developed immunity or died that it 's now gone . Aaaaaaaaand 2014 's is here . We 'll revisit this . Influenza largely comes from people living in close proximity with the two animals that can make flu happen : ducks and pigs . This does n't mean that people need to go slaughtering thousands of ducks and pigs like they were doing in 2009/2010 with the swine flu epidemic . It really just takes one pig , maybe a few , to pass along the virus to one human , maybe a few . So , farmers are the most likely to get it first and then spread it along . Once a farmer " goes into town " or just comes into contact with someone else who will " go into town , " a carrier is established , and it can spread quickly from there . Factor in airplanes , cars , trains , and before you know it influenza has made its way around the planet . Now , flu " seasons " vary by where you are in the world . You are most likely in North America , which is why you 're asking the question right now as opposed to a few months ago ( which would have lead me to believe you 're in Asia ) . This is because the flu always begins in Asia . Why Asia ? A couple reasons . There are many parts of Asia where humans farm large numbers of ducks and pigs , which provide the breeding ground for new flu viruses . Remember : new flu virus every year . Just like iPhones . Perhaps a better reason for Asia always getting it first , however , is the fact that the population on that continent is so huge . If you were to take all the humans on Earth , throw them into a bag , and randomly draw one out , you would be far more likely to have chosen someone who lives in Asia . After that , the flu * used to * spread at a predictable rate to South Asia , the Middle East , and North America almost simultaneously . Then Europe . Last was South America . I say " used to " because with the increase in global travel and the strange popularity of NOT getting vaccinated , the flu spreads pretty quickly these years . While South America still gets it last , it 's getting it sooner than usual ( used to be around March / April , now it 's more February / March ) . The reason you hear so much about it in North America is because it coincides with the Common Cold 's season . ( This , of course , simply happens when it 's cold outside , so a lot of the planet gets it at the same time ) . North Americans need the distinction made to them so that they do not think that they simply have the common cold and end up dying . This is why some Americans have a hard time being convinced that the " Flu shot " did them any good . They think , " I got the shot last year and still got sick ! " But what they really got sick with was the common cold , which shares a handful of symptoms with Influenza . So summertime finally comes around and all the people who were exposed to Influenza either had protection in the form of a vaccine ( Woo Hoo ! ) , picked it up but were able to develop enough antibodies for immunity , or just died . :( Then the cycle begins anew . I 'm sorry if this was long - winded , but if anything , please get your fucking flu shot as soon as it 's available . Not even at your earliest convenience ; * make time * for it . I want to add at this point that although it 's one form of the virus that usually does the most damage , our planet 's doctor 's develop a quadrivalent vaccine each year to protect against the four most likely ( or known ) strains that year . So you could catch someone 's Type A flu in California and survive it , then vacation to Florida and get fucked by H1N1 shortly thereafter . GET VACCINATED .