There are two types of abortions . Medical and surgical . Medical is quite simple and can only be done between 4 - 8 weeks safely . The doctor will give you one pill to swallow in office ( this effectively kills the fetus ) and then you take home another prescription of misoprostol . It can be taken bucally ( lined along your gums and allowed to dissolve over time ) or vaginally ( inserted with a finger or tampon but must stay laying down for 2 - 4 hours so they do not exit your vagina ) . This send the uterus into contractions like when you have your period . This will be much heavier than your normal period . You will pass huge blood clots . The next day , you will have to take those same 4 pills again to ensure that your uterus has pushed everything out . Followed by a checkup in two to three weeks to make sure you got everything out . You will still test positive on a pregnancy test for 1 - 5 weeks because they hormones take their time going back to normal . So it 's important to see a Dr for follow up . The next version is surgical which is a d & c. They will give you a medicine that is used to soften and open your cervix . They will also inject novacaine or lidocaine to minimize pain . The procedure lasts no more than 2 - 5 minutes . They enter your uterus and scrape the walls and suck it out with a vacuum like machine . It is done in one sitting and can be verified that day that the abortion is complete . They only do these on 8 - 15 weeks . Unless it 's medically required . There is typically more risk associated with this form because the scraping can cut into your uterus and cause problems further along in life . Sorry on mobile phone . Hope this is simple enough . Edit : I see some people bringing up the d & e. I was really just trying to stick to what the op asked . A simple explanation of abortions . And for me , abortions are optional meaning choice . Not like when something medically goes wrong in your pregnancy and you have to terminate . I also see people saying the pill is more dangerous than the procedure . I personally believe any medical procedure or medicine in general comes with risks . And was giving my best simplified answer .