Finally , my time to shine . Dentist here . Dentistry for the most part developed as a skilled trade . The field has resisted attempts to integrate into medicine throughout its history . Initially , dental training was spotty at best and it did n't take much for somebody to claim they were a dentist . For example , Paul Revere advertised his skills as a dentist in addition to his other trade as a silver smith . There were " dentists " in the 18th century that were self proclaimed but branched out into dentistry after receiving a medical education , but that was not the norm . In the US , beginning in the 1840 's , dentists began to lobby the state government ( in Alabama of all places ) to allow dentists to sit on the state medical board and license dentists to practice . This did n't really begin to be enforced with any regularity until the turn of the 20th century . Many dentists that I know do not think that the two professions should merge ( as in everyone goes to medical school and then make dentistry a residency program after getting your MD ) . The claim is that there 's so much specialized knowledge in Dentistry that it would be a waste of time to spend years on rotations through the other hospital wards when you could be studying advanced periodontics or removable or whatever else . My personal opinion is that many dentists resist the change because of a fear in the reworking of the payment structure into one more similar to the HMO model that dominates general medicine . Right now HMO practice is big in dentistry but there 's still plenty of PPO plans and cash paying patients that the compensation is good , and for the most part an insurance company is n't telling you how to practice . There 's also quite a bit of territorial feelings when it comes to dentistry . Dentists tend not to like it when they feel their " turf " is threatened . For examples of that , just see the whole dental therapist debate . Well this turned into a wall of text . So TL;DR : History , Ego , Fears of Rocking the boat , all work together to keep the two separate . EDIT : This Gold is a Christmas miracle ! I took a little nap and woke up to an exploded inbox , I 'm going to try and get to as many questions as possible , so bear with me .