I 'm a dentist . My wife is an ER physician . We went to school for 4 years for dental and med school , respectively . After this , I was able to practice dentistry but she needed another 3 years of residency ( some do 5 ) to practice as an ER doc . We both took anatomy in the same lab for a full year but most of our year focused intensely on head and neck with the rest of the body 's main vessels , nerves , muscles , etc . while hers was detailed on the whole body with less focus on the head and neck than ourselves . Our paths diverge from that course on . As dentists we learn all general diseases , treatments , medicine and pathology in various courses . We can converse in them and understand them and understand how they affect the mouth and the interconnection between them all . We prescribe medications , administer drugs ( sedatives , nitrous , antibiotics , narcotics , etc . ) and must be responsible for their effects and interactions with other diseases , illnesses , and drugs . As dentists we have rigourous training in a multitude of areas : root canals , fillings , crowns , bridges , surgery , anesthesia , implants , pathology or mouth diseases , cancer , tumours , cysts , cosmetics , dentures , etc . This requires labourious hours working on plastic teeth , extracted , teeth , humans , and lots of textbooks . Because of all these disciplines , we jump into them right from year one with medicine learned in less detailed treatment , assessment , and diagnosis on the side - but we are responsible for what we do to our patients with various medical conditions or ailments . Physicians require residency to hone their area of expertise since their general medical degree just covered the basics of ALL medicine from delivering babies , to surgery , to diagnosing and treating all ailments of the body in much more rigourous detail than us dentists . Residency gets down to specialty and sub - specialty in these areas . What dentists do in practical physical work with our drill is the bulk of our 4 years beyond the textbooks . We can specialize in order to excel and focus on one given area of dentistry . EDIT : TL;DR Working with your hands requires a lot of practice . This is a huge component of dental school and we learn just enough medicine to not kill people with the drugs we prescribe or treatment we perform .