# # What is a File System ? Imagine your computer as a recipe book . It contains sections , such as " * Cakes * " , " * Soups * " or * " Stews * " which represent directories , and within each section are individual recipes , which represent the files on your computer . So you have a list of sections ( directories ) each of which contains a list of recipes ( files ) . The contents page contains a table which tells you on which page you can find each section and each individual recipe . This is like your file system , which is essentially a big table which tells the operating system on which part of the disk it can find each directory and file . With a recipe book , you can easily flick through the book to find things without looking through the contents , but on a computer that 's quite a bit harder because there are so many files : often hundreds of thousands or even millions on a single system . So on a computer , the file system is , for all intents and purposes , the only way to find files and directories . The act of * formatting * a disk with a specific file system is what actually creates a file system , which is like an empty contents table . It gives you a place where you can insert your recipes ( files ) and sections ( directories ) . ---- # # Deleting files What happens when you delete a file or a directory on a computer is that the entry in the file system is simply removed . It 's like just crossing out the entry for an individual recipe in the contents page of the recipe book . Notice that the actual recipe is still in the book , and you can still find it if you scan through the book looking for it . This is how undelete programs are able to recover deleted files ; they can search for the file on the disk and re - insert the entry back into the file system just like re - adding an entry for a recipe back into the contents table . So you 've removed the entry for a recipe from the contents , but what happens to the actual page on which your deleted recipe resides ? Well , the recipe is still on it , but it 's considered to be a free page now . This is where the analogy kind of breaks down , because obviously pages in a book ca n't just be written over , but parts of a disk can be . So a part of the disk containing the contents of a file which no longer has no entry in the file system is considered free to use . It 's just data that no longer belongs to anything . When you want to create a new file , that piece of the disk can be reused and new data can be written to it . --- # # Secure Deletion Secure delete programs will actually attempt to overwrite the data on the disk before removing the entry from the file system . In actual fact , this does n't always work because when you write new data to a file , it does n't necessarily reuse the same location on the disk , but that 's another topic entirely .