Native Taiwanese here . In simple terms , everything started with the difference in government and the cultures divided accordingly . To start off , Taiwan is a true democratic government with it 's own president , a bunch of political parties and complete freedom of stupid speech . People insult the government every day over the media but nobody gives a crap unless you start burning houses . You can ( attempt ) to monopolize businesses and do whatever you want with your money and have as many kids as you want just like any other civilized 1st world country ( marriages are still restricted to monogamy ) . We can read whatever we want , watch whatever TV , shows and movies we want , and travel / immigrate to anywhere in the world we wish at any time . What all of this means is that if you 've ever met a Taiwanese person who spoke good enough English , you probably could n't tell whether he grew up in the USA or otherwise . China 's government on the other hand controls a lot of things . The single birth law should be common knowledge already , and many people flee the country once they know they 're pregnant with a second baby . I 've also heard of people being denied student visas simply because the officials had ' classified ' reasons against them leaving the country despite them being 100 % law abiding citizens . Recently there 's also been a crackdown on foreign accounts and everyone 's personal bank accounts are on probation . My friend who recently moved here to the US recently said her life savings are on lockdown and she is n't allowed to do withdrawals from this side of the planet nor carry large amounts out in person . Gmail is banned , Facebook is banned , Youtube is banned , Twitter is banned , PORN is banned , possessing weed is punishable to the equivalent of selling heroine in the USA , and the government STRONGLY promotes atheism above any other religion . Guess what all of this does for the moral integrity of the people ? That 's right , it does nothing . Cheating is a sport , divorce is a rising trend and prostitution is at an all time record high . Not really a country I would consider settling and raising kids in . One other major cultural difference is the writing system . Simplified Chinese created by the government during the Cultural Revolution to prevent people from going ELI5 about the history of the language , and it did a good job at that . Pinyin is NOT Chinese . How the hell does a 5000 year old non Latin language suddenly start using the English alphabet to spell out it 's characters ? In Taiwan we still learn the old Chinese alphabet ( yes , Chinese has it 's own alphabet ) and learn characters like the way they were written in our old texts . An analogy to the resultant language barrier from would be like comparing British English to American English , except the size of the respective countries are reversed and the adults in the larger country are adopting internet slang over textbook grammar . Technically we can still communicate but as someone who 's dated someone native to China I can say that it gets really weird sometimes . Finally , Hong Kong is basically what would happen to Taiwan if China were to assimilate it . Officials native to either system would clash , the marginal differences in culture would create disputes among the locals , stuff like that . You should definitely ask on the respective subreddit regarding this , they 'll have a LOT to say about the situation I guarantee you .