Hey there ! Totally not my field , but I minored in physics in my undergrad years ! Think of electricity as water in a hose . In this analogy , the current ( measured in amperes ) would be analogous to current of the water through the pipe- as in , how much water moves through a given section in a period of time . Voltage would be the speed of the water both in the hose and coming out the end of the hose . How does this help us understand transformers ? Let 's say you want to increase the voltage of the electricity . This can be done without having to raise the power supply at all , using what 's called a transformer . Put your thumb over the end of the hose- suddenly the water starts shooting out , and you can feel the increase of pressure under your thumb . The amount of water passing through any given section of the hose at any point in time has not changed at all , but by shrinking the opening with your thumb , in order to keep the current constant , the water has to speed up coming out the end , which lets you [ spray your backyard enemies ] ( URL_1 ) with a more effective water laser . How does a transformer actually do this , since there 's no real " hole " to shrink ? Easy ! Take a piece of metal ( your transformer 's " core " ) and wrap your wires around it like [ this . ] ( URL_0 ) ( Please note that the transformer setup in this diagram would do the opposite , and * decrease * the voltage ) All moving electric charges ( in this case , the electrons moving through the wire wrapped around the left side of the core ) create a magnetic field . As you can see , the left side has fewer turns than the right side . The electrons in the wire on the right are influenced by the magnetic field created by the ones on the left , and they begin moving . This creates an " induced " current in the right side . Energy must be conserved ! Because there are more coils on the right , there are more electrons under the influence than you started with ! So the voltage decreases ( or increases ) based on how many turns of wire are wrapped around each side . Unfortunately , there is one discrepancy with the hose analogy- the current in the wire has to increase if the voltage decreases , ( so that energy is conserved across the transformer ) and vise versa . The core plays a pretty important role , too ! It magnifies the electromagnetic effects because it is full of electrons that mimic the ones in the wire . Does that help ? ( It 's been a looong time since undergrad so if I 've bungled it anyone is welcome to correct me )