Obligatory " Economist here " : Aesthetic values aside * * it had plenty of practical use * * . It was the practical use that stemmed from physical properties of gold that led to any religious connotations not the other way around . Without the practical applications of gold it could never evolve into money . If it was just holy then paying with it would be sacrilege . Gold does n't corrode as other metals including silver or copper so it 's perfect for important jewellery , coinage , ornamentation - all of which had plenty of significance most notably as identifying features . Rings , heraldry , stamped coins and seals - all that served the same role as photographs , signatures etc in medieval times and before . Coins were initially stamped to certify the quality of the metal in the coin . It was the equivalent of a signed bank note or a credit card in the days when most of trade was barter . Because of that other properties - it was used very early on in medicine even in ancient Egypt or Mesopotamia . Because it does n't have harmful effects on the human body while not becoming tarnished ( see silver ) people thought that it was a better , holy element . * * Teeth * * . Did you forget how easy it was for people back then to loose teeth ? Gold was the only metal which could be placed in your mouth and last for life while looking as new . It is also extremely malleable and ductible which means that a simple technology can process gold with ease to produce all those important and valuable items . Gold is easier to process than iron which is why it was common in the Bronze Age already . You can press or hammer it into thin foil or make gold thread or thin rods . You can make coins , cups , utensils , pins , needles and obviously teeth . Gold is a very heavy metal - almost twice as heavy as silver and three times as heavy as copper - which means that it 's harder to fake - which is important because only true , pure gold has desired chemical properties . It is also an element with a better crystalline structure so it is also - among other things - able to produce a clearer sound on its own . The famous golden " ting " . In a time when people had no clue what an element is this was a great way to ensure quality of material . Gold was the rare earth element of the ancient times . It was crucial for the ancient and medieval " high - tech " industries . * * That * * is why it is so valued throughout history . And it is precisely why it became money over time . You have to have something of high value first before you can pay with it . It is just now that we do n't have as much use for it ..... unless there 's a war which means that our sophisticated economy and technology stops being helpful and people have to make do with what they have . That 's why gold is so valued in primitive circumstances even in XXI century . When your computer goes down and your credit card expires and the government paper becomes worthless you can still heat up the gold earring and split it in smaller parts .