Flexibile exchange rates are determined by the world 's demand and supply for the given currency . Individual people , investors , firms , and governments all demand a certain amount of a country 's currency at a point in time and that country will supply a certain amount of that currency . If the supply of the currency remains constant ( i.e. their central bank does not print more of it ) and more people decide that they want to buy more of the currency , the currency will appreciate and it will become more expensive to purchase . The opposite happens if people decide they do n't want the currency anymore and decide to sell it . A flexible exchange rate is important for many countries because it can act as a tool the central bank can use to help out the domestic economy if the economy is too heated or if it is in a recession . Because the central bank manipulate 's the interest rate in the domestic economy , they indirectly manipulate the demand for the domestic currency and thus indirectly affect exports and therefore aggregate demand . How does this happen ? Say , for example , the US is going into a recession . The Federal Reserve can then lower the interest rate in the American economy . When this happens , many of the American bonds investors can choose from will now have a lower interest rate which means they are not as valuable compared to other bonds in the world , say Canadian bonds ( holding all else constant ) . Investors will then decide to sell their American bonds ( or not buy any at all ) and sell American currency so they can exchange it for Canadian currency and invest in Canadian bonds which have a higher rate of return and are more profitable . The act of investors selling American currency causes the supply of American currency to increase , and if we hold the demand constant , the American currency will then be worth not as much . If American currency is not worth as much , American goods and services will be relatively cheaper , so foreigners will demand more American goods and services because they are cheaper relative to other foreign goods from other countries . The result is that the American economy begins to export more goods , and this means more jobs in the American economy , and so the economy will begin to heat up again and the impact of the recession will be smaller .