There 've been a lot of answers regarding what happened to the students and why . And most of them are correct , but I thought I 'd share a little more context regarding the background of the students . They were studying to become teachers in what is known in Mexico as a * Escuela Normal*(a school for future teachers ) hence the name that has been given to them * normalistas * roughly translated into aspiring teachers . This next paragraphs may piss someone off if taken out of context . Anyways these guys studied in a Rural * Normal * which in Mexico , specially southern Mexico , they are a " breeding " place for extreme left - wing activists , some of them peaceful , some of them violent . Evidence : [ photo 1 ] ( URL_0 ) [ photo 2 ] ( URL_1 ) This specific * Normal * in Ayotzinapa was n't the exception , with murals of Lenin , Che , Marx , Engels and Mexican guerrilla figures of the 70s . As the majority of extreme left wing activists in Mexico they are very rowdy , and sometimes become violent . Which pisses of the authorities , especially extreme authoritarian ones like in this town , so they pissed off the mayor 's wife . and the rest has been explained to you already . So basing myself on previous clashes between Mexican police and rowdy activists , when the students are detained , the police gets all " Oh so who 's the bitch now ? " , " You 're not so tough now are you ? " " You 'll get what you deserve " Again , like a truly authoritarian regime . What happened in Ayotzinapa was a pretty fucked up event , that borders on genocide . But want to know one of the reasons they were protesting ? For decades , in Mexico teacher jobs or * plazas * have been able to be inherited , as in " my mom was a teacher , I 'll be a teacher if I want to even if I 'm the dumbest person on the planet who does n't know what 2 + 2 is . And there is nothing you can do about it . " " I just graduated as a teacher , now give me a fucking job ! ! I do n't care that the whole teaching system is oversaturated , I want my fucking job or I 'll start breaking shit " " Hell no you 're not going to test if I am a capable teacher or not ! " ( a few years back all teachers in Mexico were forced to take a test . Those that passed the test was less than half , even though the minimum passing grade was ... THREE out of fucking TEN ! ! 30 % ! ! ! ) Recent educational bills tried to change this but there were massive protests started by teachers unions from the states of Oaxaca and Guerrero ( the state where the massacre took place ) Coincidently ( and not surprising ) , those two states always get the lowest scores in standardized student tests . EDIT : tl;dr . The reason the students were going to protest a speech by the mayor 's wife is a pretty fucking dumb and mediocre one . They wanted to keep ridiculous privileges that have been given to teachers even if they do n't deserve it . And no , however stupid their reasons were , does not justify the atrocity that the authorities made . EDIT : spelling