The ELI5 answer is because many people played the game and found it to be their favorite . That answer is perhaps a bit to pithy , though , and so I 'll go with a slightly different version . This requires that I start with two assumptions . First , that the OP does not agree with this ranking and second that the OP did not play it when it first arrived nearly two decades ago . Making a list of best games is a trying task . In 30 years , we 've gone from Super Mario Brothers to Far Cry 4 and on every level modern games have improved . They have more complex graphics , more focus on a wider variety of facets including narrative and mechanics and generally are the result of decades of advancement and decades of trial and error . Thus your average game released now represents improvements in most of not all areas when compared to a game from decades past . So , why is it that the top lists of games is n't absolutely dominated by brand new stuff ? For the same reason the list of top movies is not dominated by films made in the last few years . You do n't compare a modern movie to an ancient movie directly - the only thing that would achieve is seeing how film has changed and you do n't compare a modern game to an ancient one directly either . Instead , they are viewed relative to the time in which they existed . When Ocarina of Time came out , it was easily the best Zelda game . At the time , it had a striking and beautiful art style , well thought out mechanics , a greater focus on story and was simply vastly superior to just about everything else at the time . This made for a game that was instantly beloved by just about everyone who played it and it earned this by being a game so far ahead of its peers that the formula has remained all but identical ever since . Thus the ELI5 answer is that many people think that relative contemporary stuff , Ocarina of Time is the best game . We can look at this a different way though by looking at a different game . Consider the classic PC game Baldur 's Gate 2 : Shadows of Amn and compare it to Dragon Age : Origins . There are many broad similarities between the two and , as you might expect , Dragon Age shows broad refinement at every level . And yet Baldur 's Gate generally is placed above Dragon Age because , at the time , Baldur 's Gate 2 's real competition was Baldur 's Gate 1 . Thus while Baldur 's Gate 2 is inferior when directly compared to Dragon Age , in context it is quite the opposite . In the decade after Baldur 's Gate 2 , lots of RPGs came and went that all learned important lessons from Baldur 's gate and so Dragon Age is much less remarkable than it 's spiritual predecessor . Much like the first movie with audiable dialog is hugely fascinating because it was something new and exciting games are often remembered fondly when * they * drag the medium forward . Ocarina of Time was a game that did more than drag the medium forward - it picked it up and ran and * that * is why the game is fondly remembered . The problem with this , of course , is that without experiencing the thing in context , you can really only understand such a thing academically .