First off , its important to understand that " the greatest game of all time " is completely subjective and a large amount of people disagree that OoT holds that position ( some even argue that Majora 's Mask is better ) . The reasons people WOULD hold that position are : 1 . Great gameplay . The entire idea of Z - targeting was fairly new i think , so it was a cool way to transition to 3D and make fighting viable and less clunky . It also maintained the " Zelda feel " with the items and temples . 2 . Well made story and lore . Compared to Twilight Princess or even Windwaker , Ocarina 's story is n't involved at all , but compared to what came before it was in depth . There is a lot of lore about all of the races that are interesting , and the time travel aspects are interesting and drive the plot to places you would n't expect from a normal adventure game . 3 . Change to 3D. Realize that there were only 3 Zelda games out before Ocarina , all in 2D. The fact that their first 3D was so successful and well made is pretty impressive . Note that all 3D Zelda games ( other than Skyward Sword in a couple places ) use the same formula and gameplay as Ocarina of Time , and are all successful . Without Ocarina those games would n't have existed , or have been completely different at least . 5 . Music . While it does n't seem like music is really that important in the grand scheme of things , OoT did something unique : they tied in music with gameplay . All of the songs in OoT actually have an attached meaning to memories of the game , and the fact you replay songs over and over get them stuck in your thoughts . Its a unique thing that video games can accomplish but is n't necessarily used . It makes the game more memorable and meaningful . Every time you play Zelda 's Lullaby is a reminder to the player about what 's at stake and your promise to the princess , every teleporting song sets the mood for the place you 're going to , etc etc . You could probably write an entire paper just on this topic alone . 4 . Nostalgia . Personal experience is important in value arguments , and a lot of people will view what they played in their childhood as better than what s out now . This does n't mean that Ocarina of Time is a bad game or is worse than all of the other Zelda games , its just a factor that plays into people 's opinions . Personally I think its all of that , plus the uniqueness of Zelda games in general . They play like a fairy tale and appeal to the inner kid . Its hard to sit down with a Zelda game and not feel happy just because the tone of the games are so adventurous and exciting . Not many games can nail that as well as Zelda has . There is no definitive " Greatest Game of All Time " , just like there is no equivalent for movies or books , but I would say there is enough reason to consider it at least in the top 10 or 20 . TLDR ; Ocarina of Time has a surprisingly immersive world and fluid gameplay , all built during the initial transition to 3D , which makes its success very impressive .