The Keystone Pipeline already exists and is n't controversial , mostly because it has been built . What 's controversial is the Keystone XL pipeline . This wiki article shows a route map of all the keystone pipelines ( URL_0 ) . As you can see the unapproved piece goes through Montana and Nebraska representing a straight path from Alberta to Texas . The controversy is with Nebraska . Nebraska charged against the pipeline indicating environmental problems regarding clean water . The state government supported them . So there was an initial ban . After they re - worked the path of the pipeline to spend as little time around water reserves the state government supported it . However Barack Obama came out swinging indicating that he would veto any request to make the pipeline until a review has been done . Congress just passed the bill for the pipeline where it will go on to the Republican dominated Senate who will vote it to the president who will potentially veto it . Since he 's dealing with a Republican Senate and Republican Congress he can potentially lose power to do anything if he does n't sign the bill into law . The other major controversy is around EU propaganda in regards to the oilsands . It 's worth noting they 've since retracted and denied such propaganda . The EU claimed all oilsands are " dirty oil " because they pollute more than other oils . EU was getting oil from Africa which had their own oilsands projects which were n't getting the dirty oil designation ... because the EU bought oil from them . However now that Russia 's oil is out the dirty oil designation is gone . There was also unfactual information stating that fuel made with bitumen ( oilsands ) is less fuel efficient than regular oil . In reality America has been getting bitumen for quite some time now ( because as you can see the map does bring oil from Canada into the United States ) . Basically any environmental protester has tried to spread as much misinformation as possible . The information as it was ( that the oilsands contribute 3 % of the total carbon emissions for the world ) is damning enough without making stuff up . It 's a politically tenuous issue that divides the left and the right in both Canada and the United States . If you are against the Keystone XL you are regarded as a liberal and if you are for it a conservative . Because the debate is designed this way there is no way to talk to the fanatics on either side .