Because smart , educated people are often very , very good at over - thinking things . They question everything . They do n't accept authority as the final word on anything . And they 're fantastic at coming up with " logical " justifications for purely emotional reactions . No one 's more susceptible to confirmation bias , than a person who is already very good at collecting and assembling data . This guy actually wrote a book about it : [ Smart People Believe Weird Things ] ( URL_0 ) As for how this relates to vaccines in particular ... Parents usually have a gut aversion to harming their own child . Giving a child a vaccine involves - at the very least ! - tears , fever , and a swollen arm . Parents need to be fairly committed to want to jab their kid with a needle in the first place . Now toss into the mix heart - wrenching stories of dead babies and disabled children , along with a soupcon of conspiracy theorizing ( Big Pharma , Big Brother ) , and a general fear of the unknown ( it 's not natural ! ) . And you 've got the perfect recipe for an educated anti - vaxxer . I completely understand where they 're coming from . When I got pregnant with my first child , I read everything I could get my hands on . I had to sort through solid science and crunchy granola pseudo science , and a General Arts degree really does n't equip you to do that well . There were so many questions ! Should I have my child in hospital , where I have access to better equipment and specialists but also a higher risk of iatrogenic infections , or do I have my child at home , where there 's less risk of infection but a higher chance I wo n't get immediate help if something goes wrong ? I compromised on a midwife - attended homebirth . Do I get the neonatal heel prick to test for Phenylketonuria , even though it means my child 's first experience after birth is one of pain ( and I 'd read that newborn nervous systems are super sensitive ) ? Yes . Welcome to the world , little girl , this wo n't be the most painful thing you experience in your life ! Do I have my son circumcised ? No , the benefits do n't seem compelling enough . And what about vaccination ? I have to admit I waffled at first . Some of the anti - vaxxers stories made me cry . I talked to my doctor and he said it was my decision . I went to a Public Health info session , and I listened , and then I looked around the room . There were a LOT of parents in there , swearing off vaccinating their kids . And I thought , " Wow , there goes any hope of herd immunity . I 'd better get my kids vaccinated . " Now , of course , I 'm a huge proponent of vaccination . I 've even started insisting the family get their flu shot every year , even though the last time I got it done it messed up my shoulder . It 's worth it , to protect my mother - in - law ( who 's had cancer ) . But I was n't so sure when I was 24 , committed to protecting my unborn child , and questioning everything anyone told me .