Oh , damn , this is VERY complicated , but here goes nothing . Iran used to be a absolute - ish monarchy , under control of the Shah , a term similar to emperor . The Shah ruled what is now Iran for centuries . He used to be a puppet ruler like in current monarchies until in 1953 they told then - prime minster Mossadegh to fuck off . This was the first event . Now we come to the 1970s , With Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi in power . Remember , this is the Cold War , so , lots of comunnist / capitalist struggles for power in 3rd world countries , and Iran was one of them . So Reza Pahlavi was Pro - US all the way , and under his command Iran started a sort of modernization process , based mainly in western policies and abolishing some Islamic traditions such as banning women from voting , in which a lot of social , political , and economical aspects changed , and ( in the same way that other 3rd world countries managed this ) oppressed anyone who was considered an " enemy " ( mainly islamic leaders ) . Now add corruption and excessive use of force ( they had a secret police , SAVAK , that worked in a similar way that of the german stasi , or the chilean CNI . This was commonplace at the time . ) . You can see where this is going . This is when shit starts hitting the fan . The ( sometimes forceful ) introduction of american culture to Iran caused a sort of clash between it and islamic Culture . Muslims are pissed . Protests started popping in urban centers all over the country and ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ( which is in exile ) as the islamic leader . Shit happens ( lots of conflict here , too much for a reddit comment ) and in Februrary 3 , 1979 the Shah flees , never to return again . An islamic republic was installed and Khomeini ( who returned to Iran ) is declared the supreme religious leader . Welcome to modern day Iran . DISCLAIMER : since this happened within 50 years of the present time , it 's difficult to say completely objective things about this events . DISCLAMIER II : this has been MASSIVELY oversimplified but is what I found best suited for ELI5 . EDIT : thanks to /u / poopinbutt2k14 for Mossadegh . MEGA EDIT : Removed ISIS , I misunderstood the question at first . Also changed a few statements based on a comment by /u / iran - sza .