Engines are generally hooked up to drive shafts , which spin at whatever rate the engine is turning over . When you see engine RPMs , this is revolutions per minute - the speed with which this shaft is rotating . If the drive shaft is hooked directly up to a wheel , that is a single speed transmission . The wheel will turn at whatever speed the engine is turning over . Gasoline engines are powered by pistons and cylinders . ( Detailed description : URL_1 ) . The faster the pistons are firing and the faster the engine is turning over , they higher the physical stresses on the engine components . Your typical car maxes out at 6000 - 7000 RPMs , after which you risk damage to the little bits that connect the cylinders to the drive shaft . Stronger components can allow the engines to turn over more rapidly . Some race cars limit is more like 13,000 RPMs , but at some point if you want to go faster you need to reduce the speed with which the engine rotates . This is accomplished by changing the gear , which changes the ratio between engine and wheel rotation so that the engine can remain within it 's operating range and the wheels can spin at the speed with which the vehicle is moving . Gas engines are also more efficient at lower RPMs , and produce more power at high RPMs , so you need some way to alter the RPMs of the engine depending on what you need the car to do . If you 're travelling at a constant 50 mph , you want your engine to be turning at something like 1500 RPMs ( the most efficient speed will vary based on the engine and vehicle ) . If you want to speed up to 70 mph to pass , you need the engine to be able to be running at 4000 RPMs at 50 mph to accelerate quickly . Thus , gears . Electric engines have no pistons . They ( usually ) have a single moving part which is turned by using a magnet inside an electric field . As the electric field is rotated , the magnet turns to align with the field . The speed with which the engine can turn only limited by the speed with which the magnet can rotate . Electric engines also produce almost the same power and torque at almost any RPM . There are limitations based on the rotation of the electric field , magnet , etc , so you will need another gear for extremely fast cars , but for passenger vehicles the entire range of possible speeds can be covered without altering the gear . ( Tesla explains their engines a bit : URL_0 )