To elaborate , there are existing documented survey monuments all over the place as well as legal pins ( corners of property ) You can look up the exact location of pins or the exact location AND elevation of monuments , then from there can determine and record new locations / elevations from there . The telescope looking device is called a total station . It shoots a laser to a prism which is usually mounted on the end of a pole that the survey assistant holds , then reads the distance and elevation distance between the total station and the prism . This produces very accurate measurements ( within millimeters ) . You can also mount prisms anywhere to record ongoing movements . When there is a guy holding a pole with a keypad and a little round dome on the top of the pole , that 's GPS . GPS is quicker and easier but the accuracy is n't as good ... around 10 cm . So for example , total station would be used to lay out stakes for building corners or foundations . GPS is commonly used for topographic surveys for large projects and roads since its way quicker and tolerances are n't as crucial as a building . If you want to build a new road , for example , you would send surveyors out to do a topographic survey that would include recording locations and elevations of every object around ... signs , fences , trees , other roads , culverts , etc . Topographic is recording many points in a grid pattern across the ground so you have a record of the ground surface so that you can re create a model of the ground surface with a computer- this is where drafters / designers come in . Once you have a model of the ground you can design the road . You need all this info for both the vertical alignment of the road ( the height or elevation of the road ) and horizontal alignment ( where the road goes , where there are curves etc . ) the topographic data helps designers decide on a few things , mainly the height of road for cut / fill balance as well as maintaining drainage . Cut / fill balance is looking at the variations in ground surface and determining the ideal road elevation so that you have a good balance of areas where you need to cut ( excavate material out ) or fill ( place and build up material ) . If you do n't have cut / fill balance , you would end up with either having to cut or fill too much and haul material for longer distances , which costs big money . Next time you 're driving down a highway through a hilly area , pay attention to the structure of the roadway embankment compared to the surrounding ground . When the road goes up and over a hill , you can usually look towards the top of the hill and on either side of the road , the ground surface will slope up , and the road height is lower than the top of the hill on either side . You can imagine what the hill would have looked like before the road was built ... they " cut " material out to get the road elevation down in order to ensure the road is nt too steep . On the flip side , when a road goes through a valley , the ground on the sides of the road slopes down until it meets the valley floor . This roadway embankment is a fill . Similarly , done to maintain proper grades along the road . There is a transition point between cut / fill when the road comes out of a valley and approaches a hill . Good cut / fill balance means the road is cut into the hill enough so that you can use the excavated material to fill in the embankment on either side of the hill . Cut too much and you end up with too much dirt , which is a waste of cash . Cut too little , you have to haul in dirt from another location . Lots of times you 'll see sloughs along highways through flat sections ... these are usually borrow pits to obtain fill material . All this is determined based on the topographic survey . Then once your road is designed in the computer model , you pick out a bunch of points from the model , give the list of points to a surveyor and they go put stakes in the ground that show the alignment of the road so the contractors know exactly where to work . Stakes will usually have a station number like 0 + 500 which means 500 m from a pre determined point , like maybe an intersection . 1 + 050 would be 1 km plus 50 m. I do n't know why they use that format . Then you will have a cut / fill value like + or - 0.35 , sometimes with an arrow pointing to a line on the stake or to the ground surface . +0.35 means at that point , 0.35 m of fill is required . -0.35 of course means you need to remove 0.35 m of material . As construction proceeds , the surveyors will continually check to make sure the elevations and locations of the road are correct . They will also replace stakes that get knocked over by machinery , which is common . Sometimes in areas of significant cut you 'll see little columns of dirt with a stake on top . This is done to maintain the stake so the surveyors do n't have to return as often . Survey stakes are called " lath . " Do n't know why they call them that . The designers also look at the elevations in ditches and make sure the slope is sufficient so water will drain properly . They will put culverts where needed as well , again , based on the topo data . These concepts can be applied to any construction project .