I ca n't believe the responses OP is getting here . It 's plainly obvious that almost nobody commenting has actually looked at what " Holocaust deniers " actually claim . I 'm not a " holocaust denier " , but If nobody else is going to seriously answer OP 's question , I will try . To understand why people " deny the holocaust " , you have to actually look at their arguments and evidence rather than instantly dismissing them as crazy or stupid as most of the comments here would have you believe . The term " Holocaust deniers " is also a very misleading term , as the vast majority of these people do not actually deny that the holocaust happened - in the sense that they do not deny that Jews were put in camps , and that many died . Rather , they instead dispute the circumstances and details of this incredibly politicized historical event and come to a different interpretation . From what I understand , Holocaust revisionists generally deny that the Nazi Concentration camps were designed to systematically exterminate people , and claim the " death camps " were actually initially designed as political internment camps , similar to [ camps in the USA for Japanese citizens in WW2 ] ( URL_0 ) . They often mention the Auschwitz swimming pool , Orchestra , theater , sports - field and art activities and ask why they were built for , and used by people who the Nazi 's intended to simply exterminate . They reference eyewitness quotes and testimony to support their claims(For example , from [ videos like this ] ( URL_1 ) ) . Revisionists also point to the design of the camps , using the blueprints as being clearly ( in their opinion ) , inefficient for mass murder . They claim that the " gas chambers " were used for delousing clothing and bedding and go into great detail on that subject . They also explain away much of the holocaust evidence as having been faked after the fact , [ for example this fake photo ] ( URL_2 ) , which has been in newspapers , magazines , documentaries , and even hit front - page on Reddit several times . ( I did some research , in this specific case it turns out the photo really was faked and even mainstream historians admit it . ) When asked to explain why so many died in the camps , they often talk about the mass bombing of farms , railways and roads by allied forces nearing the end of the war - meaning that almost no supplies reached the German people , let alone the camps - resulting in many camp inhabitants dying of starvation and disease . WW2 is an incredibly complex topic , made even more difficult to analyze because of the propaganda used by both sides at the time . Again - To understand why people question the holocaust , you have to actually ask those people ( or watch their videos on Youtube ) . You wo n't get a truthful , or even interesting answer here on Reddit . I fully expect to be down - voted for this , because people here are more interested in circle - jerking and making holocaust / nazi puns than learning or understanding . Hope this answers your question though OP .