So , going way back ( edit : more than 10,000 years prior to the War of the Rings ) , Iluvatar was the original creator of life on the world of Lord of the Rings ( Arda ) , and of his creations , which included the Valar ( beings of great power who basically run things from afar ) and the Maiar ( beings of slightly lesser power , including the istari ( wizards ) like Gandalf and Sauron ) , and the elves , the elves were Iluvatar 's favorites . So , one of the Valar , a bad guy named Morgoth , captured some elves and tried to use them to create his own " children " - but they were a perversion of the elves , lesser in every way . These " children " are the orcs that continue to live on well after Morgoth 's departure from the world . Sauron and Saruman continue to use them as armies . These orcs live in the darkest places of earth , like Moria , and some of them could n't stand being out in daylight ( though Saruman bred some that could handle it ) . The reason they lose all the time is because ( 1 ) they initially did n't do too well in the sun , ( 2 ) they 're not as smart as elves because they 're a cheap copy , ( 3 ) they do n't have love or any other driving force to help motivate them to really TRY to win , and finally , because it is suggested in Tolkien 's works that when it counts , * when it really counts * , the Valar and Maiar kind of step in and help out a little bit . Gandalf , for example , lends great power and wisdom to the armies of elves and men throughout the War of the Rings , and some of the goodness and power of the valar still run through the earth and water of Arda . It 's some supernatural shit . ( Edit : for example , this is partially why the ringwraiths ( black riders ) are so hesitant to chase after Frodo when Arwen / Glorfindel carries him across the Bruinen , they do n't want to go into the water , because the spirit of the Vala , Ulmo , still resides in some of the waters of Middle Earth ) . Anyway , it 's been over 10 years since I was a real Tolkien scholar , but that sums it up pretty much in ELI5 terms , as far as I remember . Someone else might be able to provide a more accurate or detailed answer . Sources : The Silmarillion , the Unfinished Tales , Letters of Tolkien , LotR appendices . Edit : Someone else pointed out that they are n't as well trained , and this is probably part of it for sure . The men of Gondor and many different races of elves were well trained as warriors ( especially because elves , who are immortal , had lived through previous dark periods prior to the War of the Rings ) , so they would have the tactical advantage in some ways . Edit : details and examples Edit : This is literally the only time I 've ever felt I could contribute a useful answer in ELI5 . Thanks OP .