I 'm going to go with US Marine Corps organization because that what I know . I 'm also going to go with an infantry structure , also because that 's what I know . Forgive me if I forget anything , it 's been a while . First you have a Squad which is thirteen Marines . Three squads make one rifle platoon . A rifle company consists of three rifle platoons , a Headquarters and Service platoon with eight or so support Marines , and a Weapons platoon with Machinegunners and 60 mm Mortars . Boom , you have what 's called a " Line Company " . There are three Line Companies in a battalion , plus a Headquarters and Service Company " H & S Co. " and a Weapons company . Weapons company consists of Combined Anti - Armor Team ( CAAT ) 1 and CAAT 2 , two platoons staffed by TOW Gunners , Machine Gunners , and Assaultmen ( Rocket launcher toting demolitions speacialists ) and vehicles to carry them . Then you have the Mortar platoon which employs 81 mm mortors . Finally , you have a H & S platoon . Headquarters and Service Company is the support company of the Battalion and also the largest . It is comprised of five " S Shops " . S-1 is Admin , all the paperwork for promotions , reassignment , demotions , pay , etc . S-2 is Intelligence , which is laminating maps of mission Areas of Operation ( AOs ) , making powerpoints on local cultures , etc . Also of note , the Scout Sniper platoon Platoon Commander is generally always the Junior S-2 officer . S-3 is Operations , planning training , missions , etc . S-3 is almost solely staffed by Infantry ( MOS 03XX ) Marines . S-4 is Maintenance and Logistics , you have you Supply guys who get and give gear , Motor Transport who " maintain " the vehicles , Cooks who give you apples and juice during hikes , and probably other people I 'm forgetting . S-6 is Communications , they handle radios , phones , computers , and each other 's dicks . I was a dick handler in the S-6 shop of a Battalion . Now you may ask what happened to S-5 ? S-5 does not operate at the battalion level as they are Marine Air Ground Task Force planners . What about Scout Snipers , you know the Marky Mark in Shooter , camo - paint eating motherfuckers ? Well , Scout Snipers have their own platoon in the Battalion and can be attached to either H & S Company or Weapons Company . I 've seen it both ways but most of the time they roll with WeaponsCo . So there you have an Infantry Battalion . Four Battalions make up a Regiment and there 's generally two or three Infantry Regiments , along with a host of other units , that make up a Division . After the Division it can go to either the Marine Corps Installation ( MCI ) commands , to a Marine Air - Ground Task Force ( MAGTF ) or probably a whole host of other overarching , over - complicated command structures . TLDR : Bureaucracy Edit : Words are hard .