[ warning : a random french guy on the internet 's opinion ] The euro arrived in the late 90s / early 2000s . This is a rather terrible period for most rich ( and even less rich ) countries of europe : globalization killing our industries , oil prices going higher each day ( except right now ) , and lots of other bad things . As well as in the US , the economic situation has grown more and more depressing . The symptoms are showing stronger and stronger ( particularly since 2005/2006 , but there was some shit going on earlier , in the 80s/90s too ) . Hence , there is a strong correlation between the arrival of the euro and the arrival of the troubles in economy , which leads many people to feel like the euro is responsible for it . ( which , in some cases , may be true , too , but the euro has done nothing for a against world - scale social and politics issues ) Moreover , at least in France , the switch from francs ( the french currency before the euro ) and the euro kind of froze the prices in francs in the minds of people . They still remember : before the switch , a baguette cost 3 francs , a journal 3 francs , etc . ( and tend to idealize those prices sometimes ) In the meanwhile , the prices of common goods in euro have risen up due to the normal inflation . And it has been 15 years since then , so a 30 - 40 % rise in prices should be normal due to inflation . And it should be progressive , too , people mostly do n't notice inflation . But this " freezing " of the prices in francs in the mind of people makes them realize that the prices have risen , and they do n't get that it 's normal inflation . Then they go on and whine about the higher inflation the euro has caused while it has indeed toned down inflation in comparison to the situation at the time of the francs . Something that may worsen this is the fact that many not - so - common goods have appeared and are growing cheaper and cheaper . Everything electronic does generally not really follow inflation , computers , smartphones , PMPs , do cost lesser and lesser money , so people are more used to the prices going down where this is just an anomaly . Another factor ( quite ironically ) is the feeling of the loss of control over your money . Before , if France wanted , France could just print some more francs and devaluate its currency to fight economical shocks . Even though people know it , they mostly do n't instinctively relate it to a rise of the prices , so they regret we can not just do that and get past the crisis . They rage about the state not being able to devaluate the currency , while they whine about the euro making prices go up . While there may be some legitimate debates about a negative influence of the Euro on the Euro - zone economy , I feel that the hate for the euro ( and therefore the Eurozone as it 's its main consequence on everyday life ) is mostly a sheer coincidence : times are hard and people need to blame this on someone , since many do not fully understand the real consequences of the birth of the Euro , they blame everything ( and more ! ) on it . About Africa , I have no freaking idea . I do n't think much can be inferred from the situation in Europe since economically and politically , Africa and Europe have very little in common .