It 's a somewhat overwhelming process but bare with me .. A car engine ( technically known as an internal combustion engine ) goes through a simple four - step process known as the four - stroke cycle . You have the Intake stroke , compression stroke , power stroke , and exhaust stroke . This is a very rapid process that your cars engine goes through to operate . This process involves engine pistons , which draw in and push out air and fuel from the combustion chamber . Also another thing , these pistons move in a set order known as firing order , and varies depending on how many cylinders your car has , and whether the engine is an inline or v - type . You can learn more about firing order here : URL_0 but that 's not the objective here . The pistons in the cylinder are all connected to a crankshaft which sends power to your transmission , which sends that power to the wheels . Aside from pistons , valves also play a crucial role in the four - stroke cycle . These sit inside of the engine head and are virtually ' doors ' for allowing air / fuel in and out of the combustion chamber . Intake stroke : A car engine ' breathes ' in air via the air filter ( in modern engines it 's usually inside of a plastic box to the left / right of your engine , or in a cone filter shape ) , while at the same time fuel is being sent from the fuel tank to fuel injectors ( or carburetor if you have a very old vehicle ) to the combustion chamber . As the piston inside the engine block goes down , the intake valve in the engine head opens up while the exhaust valve remains closed , allowing the air / fuel mixture to access the combustion chamber until the piston can not go down any further . Compression stroke : With both intake and exhaust valves closed , the air / fuel inside of the combustion chamber is compressed ( thus giving it the name Compression stroke ) until the piston is at the top and can not go up and further . Power stroke : This is where the magic happens ! Just as the compressed air is sitting at the top of the piston near the engine head , the air / fuel mixture is ignited via spark plugs ( Diesel engines do not have spark plugs because they can withstand more compression , but they go through nearly the same process as regular gasoline engines do ) and the piston goes back down to its lowest point . Exhaust stroke : Intake valve close , exhaust valve opens , piston goes up and pushes the air / fuel mixture out of ouf the combustion chamber to make room for more air and fuel . * note : This applies mainly to a piston engine , I 'm not very sure how this would work on a rotary engine like in a newer Mazda , but it should be relatively similar . That was n't so bad , was it ? There are gif images around that visually explain how a four - stroke process to prove that what I just explained is n't just crazy - talk . In terms of liters , they just simply determine the displacement for your car 's engine . Simply put , the higher the engine displacement , the more power that engine is willing to put out . This depends on the number of cylinders your car has . A four - cylinder engine can have a displacement from as low as 1.5 to just above 2.0 liters . Six - cylinder engines can have from 2.5 to 3.5 . Rule of thumb , engines usually have half a liter per each cylinder the car has . Horsepower is simply a measurement of how much power an engine puts out . So ya wanna go fast ? To increase horsepower , a proper aftermarket intake and exhaust setup is crucial to promote more air - flow to and from the engine and reduce pressure . Aftermarket camshafts known as simply ' cams ' ( which extend the period in which the valves in the engine head move up ) which also promote more air - flow . Lightweight engine parts such as brakes , suspension , wheels , pulleys , clutch , flywheel ( if you have a manual transmission ) free up some extra rotating and static mass which might not make your car 's horsepower increase , but it will definitely feel a lot faster . A proper turbocharger or supercharger is also one of the best bang - for - your - buck way to increase horsepower , but can be veeeery costly and dangerous if not done 100 % properly . Of course , ecu tuning helps , which optimizes your engines Engine Control Unit to suit other aftermarket parts . A stock car ( such as your grandmother 's 1992 Camry ) has veeery little ( if any ) benefits from only an ecu tune . Woo , that was a doozer ! Well , there goes my two cents on car engines and horsepower . Feel free to ask any questions or prove me wrong on something I was not correct about . I 'm only an 18 - year old kid and I am not a mechanic . Well , not yet lol .