The French has Le , La , and Les . The Spanish have similar versions . In " romance languages " nouns have " genders " ( feminine and masculine ) and thus there are different versions of " the " to indicate the gender of the noun . And a different version for plurals as well . Why does this exist ? Why does grammar exist ? I have a theory and it 's called Error Correction . In computer code , you sent error detection or correction bits at the end of each byte of data . This could be something as simple as a checksum bit ( adding up the bits in the byte and indicating even or odd ) or could be something as complex as a hamming code , which can actually correct bad data . The idea is , if the ECC shows an error , you can ask for re - transmission of the data . So , for example , if I say " La Chat " in French , it grates on your nerves , as " Chat " ( cat ) is a masculine noun , and " La " indicated feminine . You might ask the speaker , " Did you mean ' Le Chat ' or ' La Chien ' ? " to clarify , as clearly there was an error in the preceding sentence . We have similar ECC 's in the English language . For example , the verb " to be " is conjugated differently depending on whether the subject is singular , plural , past , or future tense . We do n't have genders in our nouns , of course . So , while rappers may say " I be , he be , she be , they be " in a sort of Esperanto version of English , the correct declination is " I am , he is , they are , they will be , they were " etc . If I was to say " He are ... " you would immediately realize there is an error in the sentence . Either I meant to say " They are " or " He is " and you might ask for clarification . It really is no different than a checksum bit . Maybe the future of language will eliminate grammar and we will go to the " I be , he be , she be , they be " kind of simplified English . And maybe this is a reflection of better communications channels today . But grammar did n't just happen , nor it is some arbitrary set of rules . It has a function in language to act as an error correction code , just as your computer uses ECC to detect bad data . FWIW . P.S. - there is another evolutionary aspect of grammar in language and that is to help people detect those who are of their group and those not of it . You might call this a language version of IFF ( Identify Friend or Foe ) which is an electronic system used in warfare today to tell the good guys from the bad guys . In language , grammar and accent serve the same purpose . In times long past , primitive peoples had to be able to identify , quickly , who was one of their tribe , and who of another . It was a survival skill . How they spoke their language and how well , was often an determinant . And this was true even in modern times . In WW II , it was awfully hard for American spies to " pass " as Germans , as the language , grammar , and accent are hard to fake . A lot of stuff we think of as " just happening because of chance " turns out to have some sort of purpose or survival skill . IMHO .