GPUs and CPUs are very different beasts . And while we 're at it , clock speed is not a very good indicator of the actual performance of a CPU . There are lots of factors . the clock speed tells us the rate at which electrons travel through the circuit and settle down . It 's called a machine cycle . CPUs have an instruction set , that is a set of basic operations that they can perform . Each operation takes a certain number of machine cycles to complete . These operations are things like " add , " " multiply , " " logical and , " or " memory read . " There 's also something called pipelining , which allows multiple instructions to take place at the same time , but then you have to be careful about dependence on other instructions ! ( if instruction A adds two numbers and instruction B adds the result to a 3rd number , B has to wait for A ! but if A adds two numbers and B adds two different numbers , they may be able to run simultaneously . Good pipelining / optimization can detect this ) So pipelining and optimization is important . Many instructions , particularly memory reads , which are extremely important , and a good portion of what a program is doing at any given time , take several machine cycles to execute . And memory reads are really common . So the speed of communication between CPU and memory is really important , because if memory reads take fewer machine cycles , whole programs will run faster . There 's also special memory that exists on the CPU chip , called registers . The size and number of registers are also extremely important . But even above all that , the program that 's running and the way that it 's optimized for the CPU will probably have the most impact of all on performance . Also important , and increasingly so , is parallelization , which is where we tie in GPUs . A CPU runs one instruction after another ( with some pipelining , but it 's limited how much you can do at once with pipelining , you still need instructions to happen in order ) . Nowadays there are multiple cores , that means that there are two or more CPUs that can be executing their own instructions in sequence . You can do two or more things at once . This requires a more complex branch of programming called " parallel programming " to take full advantage of . ( CPUs can also have threads , which basically means that one CPU runs two lists of instructions by rapidly interleaving them ) . GPUs are the ultimate parallel processors . Unlike a CPU , a GPU does n't rely on rapidly executing a list of instructions in order , instead it executes a LOT of instructions simultaneously . Potentially thousands at once . This means that the things they are suited for are different . While a CPU is good for sequential ( serial ) operations where later instructions are dependent on the results of earlier instructions , GPUs are suited for problems where there is n't a lot of dependence . Like graphics . If you want to rapidly update every pixel on screen within 1/60th of a second , or do a bunch of matrix computations for 3D gaming ( did you see the top post on /r / askscience about linear algebra today ? ) , you do n't want a CPU to do millions of sequential operations . You want a GPU to do a couple massively parallel operations . That 's a high level description of the difference