Prussia was a Germanic Kingdom in north - central Europe from 1701 to 1918 . It played a key role in the unification of Germany in the 19th century . There 's no real link between the words " Prussia " and " Russia " ; they just happen to sound very similar in English . In 1815 , in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars , 35 ( later 40 ) Germanic Kingdoms , Duchies , Principalities and Free Cities were organized into the German Confederation . This was a loose affiliation if independent states , primarily designed to keep a check on the ambitions of its two largest and most powerful members : the Kingdom of Prussia and the Empire of Austria . The 19th century was the time of the birth of nationalism , and the development of national identity . German nationalism was a powerful force among German speakers , and new liberal and nationalist movements wanted a united state for all German speaking people . This culminated in a failed revolution in 1848 , intended to create such a state . Even among traditionalist , conservative upper classes , who preferred maintaining a loose Confederate structure , the questions of nationalism and unification had to be addressed . There were two competing answers to the question : " Greater Germany " and " Lesser Germany " . " Greater Germany " was the plan to have a single state controlling all German territories , ruled by Austria . " Lesser Germany " was the desire to have a Confederation of German states dominated by Prussia and excluding Austria . In 1862 , Prussia 's King Wilhelm I appointed Otto von Bismarck as his Chancellor . Bismarck , the " Iron Chancellor " , wanted to promote the " Lesser Germany " solution and move Prussia into a dominant position as soon as possible . In 1866 , disputes over the administration of the newly captured Schleswig and Holstein territories led to war between Austria and Prussia . Prussia won the war resoundingly , and the German Confederation was dissolved . Prussia annexed a great deal of territory in north - central Europe , and incorporated remaining small states into the North German Confederation . This was essentially a means by which Prussia could dominate the other northern Kings , Dukes and Princes . Austria was excluded , as where the southern states of Wuttemburg , Bavaria and Baden . By 1870 , Bismarck had maneuvered Prussia into the position of being the only Germanic state with the military power to protect all other Germanic states . He had created a network of defensive alliances between the states mandating that , if one was attacked , they all must come to its aid . In 1870 , a Prince of the Hohenzollern family ( the family that ruled Prussia ) was offered the throne of Spain . This did not go down well in France , where Napoleon III was none too keen on having powerful Hohenzollern 's on both sides of his country . Expecting Austria to support him ( wrongly ) , Napoleon III 's France declared war on Prussia . Now , thanks to Bismarck 's network of defensive alliances , every Germanic state was ( somewhat reluctantly ) at war with France and under the de facto leadership of the Prussian military . The inferior French army was crushed , Napoleon was captured and by 1871 Paris was under siege . The French government crumbled . In the heat of victory , the Germanic princes and military leaders proclaimed Wilhelm * Kaiser * of the new German Empire at the Palace of Versailles in 1871 . Every Germanic state except Austria was incorporated into the new Empire . The German Empire consisted of 4 Kingdoms ( Prussia , Bavaria , Saxony and Wuttemburg ) , 5 Duchies , 6 Grand Duchies , 7 Principalities , 3 Free Cities and the territory of Alsace - Lorraine . Each territory had its own royal ruler , over whom the Emperor ( Wilhelm I , then Wilhelm II , who were Kings of Prussia ) ruled . The Prussian aristocracy - called Junkers - were the most powerful political and military class . This was situation that would remain until the collapse of the Empire in 1918 , after defeat in the First World War .