First , they were trying to build a nuclear reactor , not a nuclear bomb . Even those who think they were trying to build a bomb acknowledge this — it is because building large reactors is one of the paths to creating the fuel for a bomb . In a nuclear reactor , you are trying to get uranium-235 atoms to absorb neutrons so that they split , releasing more neutrons . The fuel for a reactor , however , has very little U-235 in it . Unenriched fuel , which is what everyone during WWII was using , has less than 1 % U-235 in it . The rest of the fuel is U-238 , which will not fission easily . So the odds of an individual neutron hitting a U-235 atom are low , and the odds that the neutrons produced by the subsequent fission reaction will find another U-235 atom are also low . This is why you can put as much unenriched uranium in one place as you want and normally nothing will happen . To increase the odds , there are two things you can do . One is to increase the relative quantity of U-235 in the fuel — enrichment . This is how a bomb works , and many reactors today also work this way ( standard civilian power reactor fuel is enriched to 3 - 4 % U-235 , a nuclear bomb is 80 - 90 % U-235 ) . The other is to add what is known as a " moderator . " A moderator is a light element that the neutrons created by fission reactions can bounce off of . This bouncing decreases their energy / speed / temperature ( all the same thing at this scale ) . Low - energy neutrons have a higher likelihood of getting absorbed by U-235 atoms than higher - energy neutrons . The reason has to do with the fact that at those sizes , the relationship between the speed of a particle and the size of a particle are inverse ; from the neutron 's perspective , the U-235 atoms get bigger when it slows down . More or less . So if you take unenriched uranium and intersperse it with a good moderator , the atoms from fission will get slowed down , and that increases the chance they 'll find and hit another U-235 atom , and the reaction will continue . The two candidates for moderators that were explored during World War II were graphite ( basically just carbon atoms ) and heavy water . ( Regular water can worked with slightly enriched uranium , but not unenriched uranium ; there are obscure nuclear physics reasons for this . ) In the US , they used graphite . At first they found that graphite did n't work that well . They discovered that this was n't a problem with graphite , per se , but because the methods of producing graphite introduced impurities like boron , which is a neutron absorber . So they worked with the graphite producers to make extremely pure graphite , which worked very well . The US also built several heavy water plants , in case the graphite did n't work out . They did produce a heavy water reactor ( CP-3 ) that went online in 1944 , but their main reactors used graphite . In Germany , they explored graphite but also found it did n't work well . They did n't realize this was because of impurities . So they pursued only the heavy water route , because they had heavy water production facilities under their control . However , they never acquired enough heavy water to actually make a nuclear reactor ( and this is unrelated to the sabotage of the heavy water plant by the Allies , as an aside ) , and even if they had acquired enough , it would have , at most , allowed them to make a small , experimental nuclear reactor , not generate enough plutonium to make a nuclear bomb . The notion that the Germans were close to getting a bomb is a complete myth — they were very far from it by the end of the war . So , to conclude : heavy water was chosen as a moderator for the German reactor experiments . [ Here is a graphic ] ( URL_0 ) which compares US and German heavy water stockpiles , and even if is a little misleading because a lot of the German heavy water was diluted . CP-3 is shown to give you an idea of how much heavy water you need for a small nuclear reactor . To make a bomb , you need much larger reactors than that .