I 'm assuming you do n't mean " with the help of a laboratory , " so I 'm gon na come at it from an evolutionary biology perspective . By definition , two different species are two populations which do n't reproduce , for any reason . That 's " do n't , " not " ca n't . " There are multiple reasons why it might not work . For example , I believe dogs and wolves are entirely physically capable , and sometimes do reproduce , but the hybrids are n't accepted by either wolf or dog packs for whatever social reasons . The opposite gendered wolves and dogs are simply put off by the hybrid , hence wo n't have sex with it , and that 's enough to make them dogs and wolves not the same species . Other times it 's things like two species of butterfly which are basically the same except one is nocturnal and the other diurnal . Ca n't have sex if you 're never awake at the same time . Or two species with entirely different mating rituals . Then there 's physical incompatibility , like physically it wo n't fit . Or one species does n't even have " it . " There are sea - dwelling species that just eject their sperm into the water for females to collect as they swim by , they are n't going to be reproducing with any wolves any time soon . Then there 's DNA incompatibility , which others here have expanded on . But there 's two types , DNA incompatibility which prevents the creation of viable offspring in the first place , and DNA incompatibility in the sense of a butterfly with red and yellow stripes that ca n't hide among the yellow flowers , like her mom , nor among the red flowers , like her dad . This brings us to the most interesting thing I ever learned in a biology class . Those red and yellow butterflies with the striped daughter wasted a lot of calories making that daughter who is now certainly going to die very quickly . She has no viable camouflage , so she 's not gon na pass on any genes . The mom and dad would both have been better off if they had n't even had sex in the first place . That 's why complicated mating rituals evolve . They are a way to avoid making hybrids . Females evolve to abort a fetus which was fertilized with the wrong kind of sperm and reabsorb the nutrients and calories , or to avoid a male deer who does n't have exactly the right shape of horns , or to have a really weird shaped vagina that other species ca n't even have sex with if they tried , to avoid wasting energy on hybrids that are n't really adapted for any environment . So the high - level answer to " why ca n't two different species have kids together " is that the kid would be ill - adapted and worthless , a waste of calories , so animals evolve various mechanisms to kill them off before they 're even born , usually before they 're even conceived .