TV stations get money from advertisers . During a regular TV show the viewer most likely sits on the couch and endures the ads - several commercials at a time . In streaming the viewer is typically at a computer watching the show . In that case the viewer can navigate away from a commercial pretty easily and come back to the show after it begins again . They can even rewind the show so if they leave while the commercial is playing and come back after the show 's been running for a few minutes they can still rewind it easily enough . To thwart the viewer from leaving , the TV - streaming service will shorten the ad breaks to just 1 or two commercials . This makes it less troublesome to a viewer to sit and watch than a normal 5 minute break on regular TV . But , the shorter commercial break means fewer ads from a less interested viewer base . Therefore , less money from the advertisers . Services like Hulu and Netflix pay a flat fee to run shows in syndication . Other than the licensing fee the TV stations do n't make money . In summary , TV stations get better ad revenue from their over - the - air broadcast than they do from their streaming service ( like their website ) . They get significantly more money from broadcast than they do from Netflix or online - streaming . If you look at Netflix 's lineup you see they have a lot of showtime and HBO shows . That 's because those channels ca n't run their shows in syndication on normal TV ( cussing , sex , violence , etc ) . They also do n't generate ad revenue . HBO and Showtime also know that most shows wo n't do well selling box sets of the seasons ( most people do n't really care to buy TV series in seasons ) . So the best option for them is to put the TV series on Netflix and get the licensing fees . TL;DR : TV stations make money off ads and a listening viewer base . Streaming has fewer ads and a less attentive viewer base . Therefore , TV stations make less ad revenue from their own streaming services and make much less from streaming services like Netflix or Hulu .