Languages change and evolve over time , quite naturally . Basically , speaking involves moving the tongue , lips , jaw , lungs and vocal cords in very , very precise ways , which is actually very difficult to do . In particular , the tongue has to do a lot of precision work and is constantly being dragged around the inside of your mouth , moving forward and back , up and down , sometimes being curled up and then thrust forward again . This is how tongue - twisters work : they usually contain a series of very similar " phonemes " ( as individual sounds are called ) that have to be pronounced in very quick succession . For example , " She sells sea - shells ... " works because for " sh " the tongue has to bunch up near the back of the mouth so the middle of the tongue touches the roof near the back , but for " s " the tip of the toungue has to touch the alveolar ridge , just behind the top row of teeth . The tongue twister relies on the fact that the tongue has to be manipulated from one extreme to the other and there is , quite simply , a limit to how fast the tongue can physically move . Over time , then -- that is , over periods measured in generations -- pronunciations tend to become simplified in various different ways . One way this happens is for entire syllables to become weaker and weaker , until eventually they are glossed over entirely . " Wednesday " was originally " Wōdnesdæg " , pronounced " WODE - nez - dye " ; by Shakespeare 's time the " o " had changed to an " e " giving " Wednesdei " or " Wednesday " , but still pronounced with three syllables . In Shakespeare 's day , people spelled words in whatever way they saw fit , but a little later the spellings became fixed . However , the pronunciations continued to change , and this is one reason modern English words are often not pronounced the way they are written . " Wed - nes - day " is simply a bit of a mouthful . The biggest problem is " d " followed by " n " ; both sounds are pronounced with the tip of the tongue on the alveolar ridge . But to pronounce the " d " properly , you have to take the tongue off the alvoelar ridge , but then put it right back on the alveolar ridge again for the " n " . Then you have to take the tongue off the alveolar ridge again for the " e " and then put it straight back on again for the " s " . This means that your tongue is constantly flapping around behind your teeth , and it 's a bit much . So , the first " d " starts being pronounced without being released : speakers would keep the tongue where it was and just briefly stop the flow of air ; and then it just kind of merges into the " n " completely . Meanwhile the " e " in " nes " becomes weaker and then also disappears . So what you 're left with is people saying " -dnesd- " without moving the tongue , and that just sounds like " -nsd- " . An entire syllable has just vanished . But the spelling " Wednesday " was already fixed , and because the English language has n't had a proper spelling reform for centuries , we still spell it the old way . The process is still continuing . You never hear anyone say " What is up ? " -- it 's always " collapsed " into " What 's up ? " or further into " Wassup ? " with some speakers reducing it to one syllable , " Sup ? " Some may regard this as " illiterate " or " uneducated " , but it is exactly the same process that changed " All Hallows ' Even " into " Halloween " and " God be with ye " into " Bye " . It 's impossible to say whether " Sup ? " is just a passing fad , but it may be that our great - grandchildren will use " Sup " the same way we use " Hi " and think it perfectly normal .