Due to a lack of real expertise in the comments on this question , I 'll chime in . This has NOTHING to do with the noise , everything to do with the stability of your neck . When you want to " crack " you neck , you are actually feeling a sense of limitation of motion in a part of your neck . When you " crack " it , you are actually forcing some part of the neck to over - compensate and become hyper - flexible . This hyper - flexibility stretches some of the joints between vertebrae ( and there are several that it could be ) , and this stretching causes bubble to form , they were n't always present as some redditors suggest . The bubble formation is in line with physic 's gas laws ( notably P1V1 = P2V2 ) that say when the volume of a joint space increase , the pressure inside the joint decreases . Decreased pressure ( especially in a rapid format ) causes gases that are otherwise dissolved in your fluids ( N2 , O2 , CO2 ) to form little bubbles , much like opening a soda forms bubbles . The formation of a bubble makes a noise , and that noise is a popping sound . It is also amplified greatly in your neck because this happens so close to your ears . These bubbles eventually dissolve back into the fluids of your body , which is why you ca n't crack your knuckles several times in a row . If you can crack a joint several times in a row , it is likely not a bubble formation ( called a cavitation ) . To the long term effects ... " cracking " your spine alone will not cause an issue . However , both the immobility of some segments that cause the feeling of needing to crack and the hypermobility of the habit of cracking do create structural instabilities in how your spine supports your body , moves and even the function of the nerves that radiate from the spine . " Cracking " does NOT FIX ANY PROBLEMS , as some people may suggest . We know this because the sensation of needing to crack does not go away . These long - term instability do create problems , including arthritis , nerve irritation , ligament instabilities and many secondary symptoms as a result of these conditions ( muscle spasms , headaches , abnormal sensations like burning , the list goes on ... ) To address a relevant misconception , a chiropractor ( specifically , a type of chiropractor who performs what is called Structural Chiropractic ) uses analytical methods to identify the regions of the spine responsible for the sensation of needing to crack the spine and corrects those specific regions . With some repeat adjustments and a good doctor , these regions can stabilize , causing the feeling to resolve completely . This comment opens so many doors , but here 's the TL;DR Cracking your neck is forcing a temporary hyper - mobility of the spine to compensate for instability in the spine in some other region . Cracking it does not correct the instability , hence the return of the sensation . Source : I 'm a Structural Chiropractor .