I had doubts about income inequality being harmful and heard a few arguments that I agree with and some I do n't but they are worth a conversation anyway . First off , lets just get it out of the way : There will always be rich people , this is n't a bad thing . Also , the income inequality that we have here is completely incomparable to the third world because our median standard of living is so much higher . It 's a silly argument not worth defending , but I hear it made often . What matters with that statistic are trends over time . The mere presence of extreme wealth alone does n't make you any worse off , but they way our economy works some its effects will overtime hurt the economy because of the way money is controlled . It 's not a zero sum game , but wealth introduction starts somewhere and the way classes handle it when they get it are different and it lends itself to the argument of inequality being a net bad when left unchecked . The following are all generalizations : Rich people save money , much much more than the average person . Yes , they live comparably extravagant lives , but what they are spending is often a smaller percentage of their income than what a middle class person spends . Middle class , I just lump them all in here , are people that save a little but overall spend most of their salary . They buy houses , luxury items , they really spend and it 's healthy for the economy when they do this . Poor people , they do n't make a lot of money and spend it all , but entirely on necessities and not a lot of discretionary spending . Income inequality tends to remove buying power from the middle classes , turning them lower , and gives that money to the rich who will tend to save it . Saving is actually a bad thing for the economy when done in excess , this is contrary to what we are taught as individuals . The economy is based on spending , that s what the downturn we experienced can be generalised as , a lack of spending , self reinforced . The rich are n't completely useless , they are sometimes savvy investors , business owners and people who make some important parts of the economy happen , without their capital there would be nothing . But the spending of the middle classes is the most fickle and necessary part of a healthy economy so diminishing that has consequences .