FM and AM stand for " frequency modulated " and " amplitude modulated " . Imagine if you were in a room full of people who are all talking at the same time . Your friend asks you a question but you ca n't hear him because everyone else is talking . Now imagine that you 're in that same room but this time your friend has a very high and squeaky voice . This makes it very easy to pick them out in a room full of bassy talkers . This is what AM and FM are doing ( each in their own way ) . Each radio station is broadcasting in its own " section " of the available radio spectrum ( or its own " voice " to use our analogy ) . As I 'm sure you learned in your science class , radio waves are , well ... waves ! If you graph them , they 're lines that go up , then down , up , then down . Each wave has slightly different characteristics . The frequency is how " scrunched together " the ups and downs are . Lines that go up and down very quickly over a short period are " high frequency . " Another characteristic is the amplitude - how high and low those ups and downs are . Lines that go waay up high and then waaay down low have a " high amplitude " The wave that 's being emitted from the tower is made to produce waves that are ONLY in that pattern ( this is called " modulation " ) . When your radio is receiving signals from the radio tower , it 's listening for a specific pattern based on either amplitude or frequency . It 's the same as tuning your ear to listen for your high squeaky friend vs the background - it 's just that radios are a LOT better at picking out one wave in a sea of waves . This is also why radio stations might get mad if you 're broadcasting your own waves in their spectrum . They paid to be able to broadcast at 87.4 - that 's THEIR territory . If you start broadcasting there also , then suddenly people are hearing both broadcasts at the same time - like having two squeaky friends shouting at you at the same time . As for why AM tends to have talk and FM tends to have music and the popularity differences , that 's a question for someone else to answer .