Howdy ! Pathologist here . You have an upper respiratory infection . The term " cold " actually refers to thousands of different possible viruses that all do basically the same thing . Viruses can only reproduce inside a host cell . When they do so , they make copies of themselves using the cell 's own machinery and then burst out , rupturing it . DISCLAIMER : THE FOLLOWING IS NOT A PERFECT METAPHOR ; IT IS FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY . NITPICKERS WILL BE CRITICIZED FOR REDDITING ON A FRIDAY . Think of a virus as a zombie in the crowded shopping mall that is your throat . It staggers in out of the night , bedraggled and ugly . A teen girl snickers . A businessman walks by talking on his cell phone , ignoring the presumably drunk homeless man . Mall security has n't noticed yet . Likewise , when the virus first entered your throat , your immune system had n't recognized it yet . Then the zombie bites somebody ! Someone screams ! Security comes running and tries to taze what they think is a drifter high on bath salts . ( although it should be noted that one viral body is almost never enough to start a full blown infection- it 's more likely you inhaled tiny airborn particles of somebody else 's snot or spit that were actually teeming with them ) So , fuck it , I guess ten more zombies follow out of the darkness . Nobody knows what 's going on . There 's screaming . Madness . The immune cells do n't yet know what 's going on . Mall security is frantic , plugging rounds into the zombies ' torsos to no effect ( they have not yet encountered this virus and are n't as adept at dealing with it as they eventually will be ) . Those bitten reanimate soon , and the undead swell in rank . Not all those who die are killed by the zombies . Some who are bitten sacrifice themselves , going out on their [ own terms . ] ( URL_0 ) Likewise , some infected cells are able to mark themselves for destruction . The police have n't shown up yet . I think it 's likely that your throat has n't swelled up yet as an immune response . But your nerves know something is up . There is cell damage taking place . People have huddled in janitors ' closets to call their loved ones . It 's very localized , not enough to " hurt"- the city is not full of the walking dead yet , just the shopping center- and so you feel an itch rather than full blown pain . I suspect that you have not hit the worst of it yet . Maybe you 'll get lucky and the police will cap them all before it gets too out of control . Best of luck !