The ' brain ' and body in general is always trying to equalize a ' chemical normal ' which is defined in real - time by your static DNA & dynamic RNA signatures . All incoming stimuli ( physiological & neurological ) to the person is evaluated against long - term memory to match that ' normal ' - in order to generate a ' key ' which is compared to that person 's life experiences of similar events in similar context . Minor variations can also be attributed to your ' waking period ' memory , but as implied , these are only relevant to situations learned in the immediate ' awake ' period since last REM sleep . That key comparison will return a ' positive ' branch if the historical experience has a tendency toward restoring ' normal ' metabolic equilibrium . A ' negative ' if the experience history is deviating from your ' normal ' ... --- or an undefined state - which generates a new ' experience node ' at the junction of those unresolved situations - ready for a new outcome to be acquired and learned into experience . Only the two ( + /- ) outcomes are allowed in order to eliminate fence - sitting deadlock of a situation . This process is modified over time by frequency of ' hits ' and currency of ' most recent ' hit - to develop a scalar response in context with changing reality . * * Depression is seeded * * - when the keyed experience returns a negative - which in turn keys to another ' negative ' node and so on ... the ' depth ' of depression is directly related to the number of negative recursions that occur before a ' positive ' or ' new ' experience node is reached . Where you go after that - depends on the forward branching of subsequent situations , experiences and nodes . Think of it like a huge ' tree ' of life experience . You are born with no experience at ' ground level ' and grow outward toward the sky . New ' situations ' ( raindrops ) may fall onto an existing leaf , or branch -- or fall unhindered through to the ground . How the water drop hits & flows down is entirely dependent on where it lands - or indeed if the leaf / branch exists at all ! There 's another dimension to all this , but the above may help you see the light at the end f the tunnel . good luck !