much like commerative plates , minted coins , etc . These items are supposedly " limited editions " . During the ' 90s , we were trying to fight off a recession that resulted from the " me " generation of the ' 80s . We 'd all had so much fun during the 80 's , that we were all broke sooner or later , and trying to think of a way to get rich quick . And beanie babies came out , with lots of " unique " babies that they only made a few of , and people said " There 's got to be someone out there who collects these things , and who knows , maybe nobody has a peanut just like this one ( i googled . Apparently the most valuable beanie baby is a blue peanut and it 's worth almost 5 grand . ) , so i 'll collect them all and hold on to them , and in 50 years , when i 'm ready to retire , i 'll just sell all my beanie babies and retire in style ! " So yeah . It 's not really any different than any other get - rich - quick scheme we see today . The only real difference is that beanie babies came partnered with McDonalds , so they had a rapid expansion across the globe . Suddenly everyone had * 1 * beanie baby . While dreams of having lunch with Robin Leach never materialized , considering their cost to buy these when they were new ... they 're worth quite a bit of money . Ultimately , I think it is , and always has been the win / lose scenario of collectibles . Lets say 100 people get Obama 's signature . He 's signed a lot of stuff . His signature is n't inherently valueable at the moment . But since he 's the nations first black president , his signature will have * eventual * worth . I started playing Magic : The Gathering when it first came out . And it was n't unexpected to have a couple of moxies . black lotuses were still cool and rare , but moxes yeah . i had 5 or 6 in my deck ? maybe more ? Then I stopped playing altogether . I had a complete collection ( and a whole box of duplicates ) of every card from Alpha on but seeing yet another expansion every month was impossible to keep up with from a collectors standpoint . A couple of years ago , I found my old deck . Just 60 cards . but most of them from Alpha . Took it to the local gaming shop and they gave me $ 5,000 for it . I do n't know if i got robbed , but to me , $ 5,000 for 60 cards that were n't all that uncommon to get when I played .... was a nice payday . Sadly , I probably put $ 10,000 or more into the game growing up as I was employed and still living at home with no bills . We all want to get rich . We all want to believe we 've stumbled on the next big thing . * shrug *