Many of the colonists , or their ancestors left Britain to get away from religious laws . Starting with the Puritans and Quakers . So there is already a ready made population with anti - government sentiment . Add to that the frontier mentality that if a person did n't like laws and control he just went west and started a new farm out of sight of the authorities . When government does happen in the colonies it tends to be small and local not driven from overseas . Then the French and Indian War happens . Britain spends an extraordinary amount of money protecting the colonists from their enemies . Those colonists are developing larger and larger towns and cities and expect the Crown to protect them not just do it themselves any more . The frontier mentality is being lost in the cities and towns . In response after the war the British government does several things which basically pisses off every colonist possible . First they establish the Proclamation line of 1763 . No settlement west of the Appalachians , that is now reserved for the Indians . No more running from the authorities by going west . And as the colonist see it setting up a place the Indians can gather and prepare to attack them in peace . This pisses of all the frontier minded people , and all those who chafe under government control . Second they decide its time the colonists paid for some of the defense that has already been provided in the war , and will be provided in the future . They impose various taxes on goods : The Tea Act , The Stamp Act and restrictions on how trade is conducted . This pisses off the merchants in the cities and those who in the past would flee west ca n't anymore and stay in the east as dissenters . Third the colonists are given no say in these policies . Not only will the government in England impose unwanted regulations you do n't get a vote or even the right to complain . That privilege is reserved for people in Great Britain . Now as dissent and unrest increase the British use the army now stationed in the colonies to stop it . They send out raids into the countryside to seize guns and powder . They garrison the worst of the cities not paying the taxes , and they impose more taxes to pay for this further angering the colonists . Its a downward spiral . The more the colonists resit the stronger the British clamp down which causes the colonists to resit more . All the while the British do n't even consider letting the colonists have a say in determining real policy for the colonies . In truth the taxes were not that bad . They were less than someone in GB could be expected to pay . But they were on a non - compliant population used to no taxes who did n't understand why they needed to pay them , and felt that without representation which they were used to locally they were just unfair . Better to go back to the way it was with just locals in charge .