I think we should also explain how to stop these attacks and why even with billions of dollars , it can be difficult to completely negate these attacks . One way to protect a network from DDOS is to just have LOTS and LOTS of bandwidth and spread your information over LOTS of servers . which of course takes LOTS of money . Another is of course proper network security , a firewall looks for and blocks non important or false network traffic , they try to filter out basic attacks and block repeat signals so that you can free up bandwidth and make yourself harder to hit . Of course the big corporations have very expensive and well maintained firewalls , but no wall is immune if the attacker is dedicated , persistent and willing to do the work . and the last ability a company has to defend themselves are their network maintainers / defenders . These people are supposed to be able to see the attacks as they come in and modify the firewall to customize it against the attacks coming in . Most hacking attempts , specially BOT nets , use a one size fits all attack . Each computer firing the same type of " ammunition " so a skilled defender can see the pattern and tell the firewall to ignore those packets . But it requires a lot of skill and costs a lot of money to maintain a full time skilled network defense . Most companies have an outside source that they can call upon to protect their networks . Once the attack occurs , they can call up the company to have someone come out to fix the wall and stop the attack . You 'll also notice that most of these attacks are only for a few hours at most and that 's why . It takes time to figure out the attack and patch the firewall to stop it , but it will happen sooner or later . But that 's why even billion dollar tech companies can be targeted and shut down . it wo n't last long , but when you are talking losing millions in sales and such , and also spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to stop it it is sometimes worth just paying them to not hit you . Hope this clears up some other questions that might come up .