Well , technically gseyffert is right , but I expect you already knew that and were asking the second question . The super ELI5 explanation is that there are mathematical relationships between all the notes , and it happens to be that the math works out that way . Here is an elaboration , which is not so ELI5 , depending on your understanding of math and music theory . Let us know which parts need explaining , and someone will elaborate ... URL_0 > The most basic relationship between sounds is the unison , or sounds with the same frequency , i.e. , the ratio of the frequencies is 1:1 . The second most basic relationship is the octave where one sound has a frequency that is double the other , or a ratio of 2:1 . The next most basic relationship is the fifth where the ratio of the two frequencies is 3:2 . > Now if we start at F and move up a fifth , we are at C. Go up another fifth , and we are at G followed by D and so on until we reach B. The first seven notes generated this way give us the basic diatonic scale . Starting at F , these are the white keys of the piano . Very early music used these seven notes only . Depending on which of these seven notes you used as your base note , you would generate a different mode . The two modes that most of us are familiar with are the one which starts on C and gives us the major scale and the one which starts on A and gives us the minor scale . > The distance between some notes in the diatonic scale is bigger than others . These are called whole steps and half steps respectively . There are five whole steps and two half steps in the diatonic scale . If we add to the diatonic scale by adding more fifths from B , we will generate the notes which divide each of the whole steps into half steps giving us twelve notes in all . This is called the 12 - tone or chromatic scale . Adding another fifth brings us back to ( approximately ) F , so there are no more notes to add in this manner . > Since the diatonic scale came first , these notes got the names A - G. When people started using the half tones between the whole tones , new names were needed , so the terms flat and sharp were invented . I believe the keyboard is laid out in the way it is because of this relationship between the diatonic scale and the chromatic scale .