The mattress will last longer because it will be supported properly . The important thing that some people are missing is that you should definitely replace an old box spring with a new one . If you 'd rather use a platform bed , put it directly on the ground , etc . that 's fine . But if you 're going to use a box , use the box designed for your mattress for these reasons : 1 . Boxes are designed to work with the mattress they 're sold with . It 's fairly simple technology , but there have been changes over the past 10 years or so that matter , so do n't use an old one with a new mattress . 2 . Because the box matters , your warranty will usually be voided if you use the wrong box . If your decision to save a little bit of money effects the longevity of the mattress , the manufacturer is n't going to subsidize that decision by honoring the warranty . 3 . Even if your old box is the correct kind and you do n't care about the warranty , the boxes wear down over time . The purpose of a box is to provide an even , supportive foundation for your mattress . It should flex slightly and help distribute pressures exerted on the sleep system . As this happens over time , it performs less well , causing the mattress to be less supported and to deal with more strain overall . 4 . Even if you do n't care that a worn out box might increase the rate at which your mattress wears , a worn out box could break prematurely . As the stresses are applied to the box it will slowly break down . Any day it could hit the critical point and a major component could break . At this point you 'd most likely want to buy a new one . You 'd go find the cheapest one possible . Then in a couple years you 'd replace the mattress again , but not the box , since you " just " replaced it . This cycle will continue forever and will cause you to have to make twice as many trips ( and potentially pay for twice as many deliveries ) as otherwise . 5 . The majority of the cost is on the mattress , not the box . If you 're going to pay for the mattress , it 's usually worth it to know that you do n't have to worry about anything for the next 10 years and pay for the box as well .