Counterpoint : Gentrification is neither good , nor bad - its a byproduct of evolving economies and evolving lifestyle choices . It 's a * cyclical * process . Early in the cycle is seen as good . Usually artists , musicians , and young working professionals move to poor , crime - ridden neighborhoods . These neighborhoods also tend to have gang activity , drug issues , etc . The new people move in - make the area ' cool ' , * safe * , and invest in their surroundings . Maybe open new shops , maybe open a gallery or musicspace , etc . This is all good - and the area remains affordable . After a while , developers realize the potential of the neighborhood and the new demographic . The demand means they can now invest in better ( and more expensive ) housing options , new retail , office parks , etc . This is the best time in gentrification . Middle class folks start pouring in - but there 's still plenty of options for the poor ! The only people you 're evicting are squatters and druggies ( due to increased police presence ) Eventually - the demand for luxury housing grows . Developers latch onto this - buy out the lower - end households , make renovations , up the prices , and sell only to upper - class buyers . The middle class and poor are priced out and often need to find a new neighborhood to live in . This is sad . With the middle class , the artists and musicians gone - there are no more cultural beacons . Rich start moving away after some time because the neighborhood is no longer cool . Houses go on the market for a long time , noone wants to buy in an uncool neighborhood - prices drop , neighborhood falls apart , crime starts moving in , and the cycle happens all over all again . Sometimes the cycle lasts as short as a decade . Sometimes 50 years . Sometimes longer . I 've seen it go back and forth a few times growing up in my old city . Whatever the case - this is n't new . I 'm always surprised when people complain because the cycle should be * expected * . I 'm on the brink of being priced out of my neighborhood ( and there 's no rent control in my city ) - and I 'm not really upset . I 'm lower middle - class and I have my place in the cycle - and I 'll contribute what I can to my * next * neighborhood . Edit : I 'd like to extend my gratitude and thanks for whoever gave me gold ! YAY !