The thing is , Europe is already very multicultural , it always was . Plenty of differences between German and French and Italian and whatever cultures . And lets be real here , pretty much nobody gives a fuck if an englishman settles down in Italy . We do n't whine that they hold onto some of their own cultural ideals . Additionally , the reason we 're expecting ourselves to be multicultural because we are also the reason a lot of those people are here . I can only speak for my own country ( The Netherlands ) but I am certain there are similarities in other European countries . Take after the second world war , for example . The Netherlands really needed manpower at that point . During war , many young men had died , and a lot of the survivors had gone to Canada . So we had a labour deficit . So what do we do ? We invited so many young men from other countries to come work here , first from the rest of Europe then from Turkey and Morocco . We expected these people to stay here for a short time than go home when we did n't need them anymore . Which , personally , I find a pretty douchey assumption . Oh please come solve our problems , but then you do not get to reap any of the rewards , cause you should go back to your own countries and try and build up something there after decades abroad . As you can expect that did n't work very well . These people did n't go . They settled down here , brought over their families or created new ones here , their children were born here , they have never known their ' home countries ' . They helped us out when we needed it , we kinda owe it to them to allow them to live here as well . And that is not even the only way people got here . The Netherland used to be a huge colonial power . We had colonies all over the world . We forced our culture and politics on these people , not always to positive effect for the people there . Take the Maluku Islands and Indonesia . After the world war , The Netherlands was all to eager to get their hands back on Indonesia . The people of Indonesia were not very happy with this and they fought for their freedom . Of course The Netherlands were not exactly going to take that lying down . Now we had a colonial army in that time , filled with people from the region . One of the most elite corps in it were the Maluku corps . These men had fought and died for us . But when Indonesia became independent , suddenly they were considered traitors there because they had sided with the Dutch . We could n't abandon those people exactly so those that wanted to were brought over here ' temporarily ' . So temporarily we took the liberty of discharging them from the army too . Oh but they could not work in the Netherlands either , cause no , they were going home soon , right ? We allowed them to live here but only barely . We did not allow them to integrate into our society until years and years later . And now we are complaining about how they are not properly integrated . In short , a lot of the expectations of European multiculturalism come forth from the fact that in the past we created our own problems with the politics of that day and age .