[ This ] ( URL_0 ) article provides as good of speculation as you 're going to find here , and it should be emphasized that that is exactly what every answer is going to be : speculation . The claim that lefties die on average 9 years earlier comes from a study done in 1991 . This study is , in and of itself , somewhat questionable . It consisted of looking at the number of lefties that were alive in various age groups and used that as a way to indicate life expectancy . Other studies have followed up and have found a much less dramatic difference in life expectancy , although still plenty to be statistically significant . There are a bunch of different proposed causes of this : * Lefties becoming Righties due to societal pressures which change over time , making the snapshot invalid * Lefties suffering more accidents due to using tools designed for right handed people * Left handedness correlating with a variety of problems , like low birth weight or immunodeficiency . Ultimately , though , the answer is " we do n't know for sure . " Figuring out the answer would require looking at a lot of data that just is n't easy to come by — death certificates do n't list the dominant hand of the deceased so it 's hard to get a good sample size over a long period of time . The 1991 study could have been biased by something like a World War and a few proxy wars that happened in the following years where being at a disadvantage when using a right - handed weapon could mean the difference between life and death much more often than typical day - to - day life . Heck , it 's conceivable ( but improbable ) that there is essentially no significant correlation between handedness and life expectancy . The one big thing to take away , though , is that a 9 - year difference is the largest that anyone has ever seriously suggested and should n't be taken as the most likely value . Long - term smokers get almost that much difference in life expectancy ( 10 - 18 years ) and I do n't think the scientific community really believes that being left - handed is nearly as bad for your life expectancy as a pack a day .