Do n't believe the hyped up media and TV shows about prepping . " Doomsday Preppers " and the like are TV shows . They are n't reality any more than Survivor is about how to actually survive stranded on an island . Dealing with an apocalypse is only the tiniest fraction of what Prepping is really about . Prepping is simply being prepared . Life does n't always go your way . The things you rely on to always be there for you are not always there . Ask the people who went for days without water , power , food or shelter in Hurricane Sandy . Or the massive power outage in 2003 . Or any number of tornadoes , blizzards , riots , etc that people have to deal with . We are taught to always rely on others . Clean running water will always come out of the tap . Plug your phone into the wall and it will always charge . The grocery stores will always have as much food as you want . Gas stations will always have full tanks you can just pull up and use . Police will always respond to that guy kicking down your door . Except people find out all the time that " always " is n't really true . Those systems we rely on lull us into a false sense of security . We stop learning to do anything ourselves or have any kind of backup in place . You get so used to the light switch always working , 911 always answering , and the grocery store always having plenty of food and water that you forget that sometimes it does n't work out that way . And a lot of people paid the price for it . Hurricane Sandy was n't that long ago . And the pain and suffering did n't stop when the rain and when did . People got dehydrated . People got sick . Some of them died . Do you want to be that guy who has to tell his 7yo daughter that there 's no water to drink because all the tap water is contaminated with sewage ? Do you want to tell your son that you ca n't buy any more asthma medication for him because there is n't any more ? The good news is you 're probably already a Prepper in some way and you do n't even know it . Why do you wear a seat belt when police always catch people before they cause accidents ? Just in case they do n't . Why do you have smoke detectors or a fire extinguisher when the Fire Dept will always arrive to put out a fire before it 's dangerous ? Just in case they do n't . Preppring is n't a million rounds of ammo , a pallet of MREs and a bomb shelter . Prepping is having spare batteries and flashlights for a blackout . Prepping is having a few cases of water in case they go scarce for a while ( like during Sandy , Katrina , riots , contaminated water tables , etc ) . Prepping is simply asking yourself " What things do I always seem to get from somewhere else ? What would happen if I could n't get it from that place for a day , a week , a month ? " What do you do when you do n't have power for 5 days ? What do you do when gas prices spike and there 's lines at the pump ? What do you do when you 're stranded on the side of the road in the winter and your cell phone does n't have signal ? What do you do when there 's some kind of demonstration / protest / riot a few blocks away from where you and your children sleep ? What do you do when you see an alert on the news that your tap water wo n't be safe to drink for a week ? What do you do when you call 911 and they say they ca n't have police / fire / ems out to you for a few hours ? Answer those questions . That 's Prepping . No matter what some trumped up sensationalized TV bullshit tells you .