See Russia as soft empire , like a little bit the USA . To be a super power you have to be in control of course of your own state but also the ones surrounding you . It sounds harsh but you better control your neighbors to have influence and power over them than to have a potential enemy ( to be a super power is a hard and unfair game ! ) . Like the USA did with pretty much Latin America ( organizing putsches , financing revolutions or various political parties aligned with USA 's views or just exploiting resources ) , Russia is doing it right now in Ukraine . Why ? Because Ukraine is leaning more and more to the west side with Europe ( and the USA ) and away from Russia . So Putin is trying to intervene and influence this country so that it stays within Russia 's influence . Imagine a moment if a latin american country wanted to align itself with Russia ( or USSR at the time ) or just having a socialist government . USA will be quick to strike and try to get back this country to order . Well this already happened with Cuba , Central America , Chile , Brazil and[many more ! ] ( URL_0 ) . Right now i 'm pretty sure America is n't too happy with Venezuela or Bolivia ( they wo n't openly intervene of course but i bet they secretly tried to pull some strings here and there ) . Well it 's the same thing with Russia and it 's bordering countries ( mostly ex- USSR members like Ukraine ) . It already happened before in Georgia and Caucasus like Chechnya and it is happening right now in Ukraine . Russia can not tolerate loosing one of it 's bordering country and ex USSR member to the west , it would cause a loss of power , influence , security , resources and prestige . Also Russia is seeing it as an indirect confrontation ( think of it as a cold war ) from the West . Of course the west will use influence and strategy to covertly win Ukraine . So now it 's a Russia VS Ukraine + west battle . Loosing this cold war would be a huge deal for Russia , and a win for the West . Russia already lost a lot with the fall of the USSR , they wo n't let Ukraine go .