No , not by the common understanding of prosperity , even though , technically we are almost all pretty prosperous historically . The issue is that people define prosperity relatively , " I 'm wealthier than average " is comprehensible , " I 'm wealthy " is not since we then wonder what the criteria of being wealthy are . Look at it this way , most people , even people who are economically below average , have a much higher quality of life than wealthy people did living a thousand years ago . Therefore they are more " prosperous " than these wealthy people . And certainly , if you are more prosperous than a wealthy person , you must yourself be prosperous . But no one considers these people to be prosperous , because as human beings we must think of things relatively , we must have some frame of reference . Even for the same person we can modify whether or not they are prosperous based on whom we are comparing them to at a given moment . We can say someone is poor , or unprosperous when we are thinking in our mind of the United States but if someone were to say , " yes but what about compared to the rest of the world " , we would think about Africa and India and such and perhaps say that yes this person is prosperous . Anyway , in the end , prosperity basically means quality of life and we measure quality of life relatively . But let 's take some country smaller than the U.S. , let 's go back to ancient Greece and form our own small city - state of 1,000 people . imagine that we are excellent at warcraft and can go and take the land and goods of many of the small nations surrounding us ; we divide these spoils up and give each family their fair share . Then , all our people could considered prosperous , because we would be a small nation and in close proximity to others who are less . But the United States is , I think too big , or rather it is too proportionately big compared to the total population . We make up such a big portion of the world , and occupy a fairly isolated position , surrounded as we are by oceans and few nations , that the " pool of people " to whom we compare a given person will always be comprised mostly of U.S. citizens . So while it is possible , perhaps in some socialist country which has discovered amazing natural resource , for all the citizens in a small European country to be " prosperous " , it is only because the first inclination is to take a larger pool , where the citizens of this country make up less than half of the total . For the pool of the United States , U.S. citizens will most likely be more than half , therefore all of them can not be above average , nor even all average or above . * * TLDR : The only way we can think about prosperity is on a relative scale , we must compare our citizens to others . And the U.S. is too proportionally big and too isolated to every have a pool of comparison big enough , where we do n't have to compare our own citizens to other citizens . * *