Contrary to popular belief , deserts are not " useless land , " unless you 're a real estate developer . Rather , they are complex , fragile ecosystems that play a vital part in the entire environment . But , hey , fuck the desert tortoise , we need juice to charge our phones . There are * priorities , * dammit . So let 's cover a desert in solar panels . What 's the worst that could happen ? Glad you asked . The worst that could happen is that you change the climate , either locally or far away , possibly for the worse . Among the many things that contribute to local climate is albedo , the percentage of sunlight that reflects off the ground . The albedo determines how hot the ground gets and how much of that heat gets reflected back into the air , and that plays a * huge * role in determining local climate . Local climate , in turn , affects nearby climate . And so on . Solar panels would change not only the albedo , but also the dynamics of the ground heating and cooling , because now you have a bunch of VERY hot panels with very shady areas underneath them . That destroys the desert ecology for sure . Desert cities like Phoenix , Arizona found this out the hard way . As they started paving over the desert with more and more concrete and asphalt , they discovered the average local temperatures were rising rather rapidly . Fortunately , they summoned up enough sense to address the problem , and started putting in more green space , grass and trees , that kinda thing . If they had left that unchecked , there 's no telling what might have happened . So in addition to all the other problems involved in building a shitload of solar panels in the desert ( JUST keeping them clean would be a * major * job ) , what you 're going to do is almost certainly change the local climate -- and there 's no way of predicting which way that will tip . You might turn your nice sunny desert into a local version of Seattle . Or you might turn Seattle into a desert . There 's * literally * no way to predict what will happen , but we know for a fact that SOMETHING will happen .