The most basic type of code you would program into the device is a RAM Overwrite code . The simplest example of this would be an infinite money cheat . The developers working for AR or Gameshark load up the game on whatever developer hardware they have and play for a bit . Eventually , they would take a note of how much money the game says they have , and also take a snapshot of the contents of RAM . Then they could go buy some stuff and take another snapshot . At this point , they could do a search through the RAM snapshot for the value of money that the game showed when it was taken ( say $ 1000 ) . This would give them all the RAM locations containing the value 1000 . Doing the same for the second snapshot , they would get all the locations containing 800 ( for example ) . A simple cross - reference should yield the locations in RAM that contain a reference to the value of money the player currently has . If there 's a lot of results , more snapshots would help narrow it down . If there are still multiple results after several snapshots are correlated , it probably means that the value for money is stored in multiple locations . This could be because one is a " saved " value and one is a " working " value , or , the value is copied at some point for computation , but not overwritten with something else when the computation is done , or the game has some sort of error checking system where all the values must match . At this point , the cheat developer would start playing around with what happens when the values are manually changed . Once they figure out which RAM locations actually control the value of money , they take those locations , along with some value ( say 9999 for example ) , and make a RAM Overwrite code . When you program this code into your cheat device , it instructs the device to periodically ( many , many times per second ) overwrite whatever value is in those RAM locations with 9999 . So , when the player goes to buy something , the new value of money is calculated for the purchase , but shortly afterwards , the cheat device rewrites the value as if it never happened . The code itself that you program into the cheat device just contains some value indicating the type of code ( RAM Overwrite in our above example ) the RAM address to overwrite and the value to write with . Also , most companies will take the code and encrypt it so that only the cheat device can decrypt it and figure out what the code is supposed to do . This just protects the work they put into developing the cheat . Another important type of code is the Enable code , and is a bit tougher . With most cheat devices , you have to have an enable code to use any other cheats for the game . This ties into our above example where we talked about RAM locations being overwritten many times per second . Doing this is actually not that simple . The cheat device does n't have access to RAM at all , not while the game is running . The only thing it can do is , when a request is made to get read - only data from the cartridge ( code to be executed , graphical data , audio data , etc . ) the cheat device can intercept it and send something else instead . To get access to RAM , the cheat device needs a hook , a mechanism by which it can begin inserting its own executable code into the game code . To do this , the cheat developer needs to find some spot in the game code to insert the hook , which will probably involve replacing some game instruction ( or several ) with another instruction ( or several ) that will attempt to access the cartridge in some way that the cheat device will recognize . This can only be done with expertise , as finding a good hook point involves finding some game code that is run very frequently , that can be modified without breaking the game , and that can handle being halted for significant periods of time ( while the cheat device runs its code ) without affecting the performance or responsiveness of the game . For example , the cheat developer could use a section of code that checks the status of the controller buttons , to see if any have been pressed , which pretty much every game needs . This gets run very often , but messing with it could affect the game 's responsiveness to button presses , and the player might feel that the game is laggy . The Enable code itself will contain the following . ( A ) Information for the hook instruction(s ) such that during any normal cartridge read , if the hook instruction is part of the read , the cheat device will automatically swap the game 's instruction out for the hook instruction and send it instead . ( B ) Optionally , as this may not need to be different from game - to - game , information about what " special operation " the hook instruction will perform , which signals to the cheat device that it needs to start sending its own executable code to be run . ( C ) Optionally , information about where the cheat device 's code will be loaded into RAM . Running from RAM as opposed to ROM is much , much faster , and less likely to cause " lag " issues as described above , but requires that there be enough space in RAM to load all the code , without affecting the game . ( D ) Optionally , information about the instructions that the hook replaced , which may still need to be executed in some way . Again , this is still a pretty basic picture of the kinds of things cheat devices do . All of the above assumes , for example , that the game does n't contain any type of anti - cheat measures . The Pokemon series is probably the most famous for anti - cheat . Individual Pokemon that you 've caught are made up of 100 - byte blocks of memory ( in Gen 3 , more bytes are used in later Gens ) most of which are encrypted and checksummed . Additionally , the actual locations of the blocks in the cartridge flash memory varies , and the entire contents of flash memory are checksummed , preventing any changes from being made without also changing the checksum value . The encryptions and checksums are not that complicated and are actually pretty well documented and easy to fake for developers and people with special hardware , or emulators , but doing so from a cheat device that has to rely on hooks and limited access to RAM is pretty damn difficult .