It mostly is n't . As other commenters have said , but I will sum up : In the United States in order for an " employer " to legally have you on unpaid , you must either be a volunteer or a trainee . There is a strict test from the department of labor on what it means to be legally an unpaid trainee , which almost no real - life unpaid interns actually meet . You can find it [ here ] ( URL_0 ) along with friendly explanations . To be a volunteer , it is unclear what the precise boundaries are , but there are certain rules such as : * You ca n't " volunteer " for profit - generating work at a for - profit company . * It is illegal for an employer to have you volunteer to do something you were formerly paid for , or are sometimes paid for ( they ca n't pay you for 20 hours and have you work for 40 , and claim the other 20 are " volunteering " ) . * It is illegal for them to condition receipt of a job on " volunteering " for them first . So , the follow - up to your question is , given that most unpaid internship programs are actually illegal , why are they still so prevalent ? Here are some answers . * There 's no " internship cops " running around policing them . In order to be held illegal , they must be challenged . * Many people take these internships because they believe it will help get them recommendations , references , networking , etc . , in order to find a job . All of that gets shot to hell if you file a complaint . Most people would rather tolerate 4 months of unpaid work than have their career prospects . * Most interns do n't know they are illegal , ( reasonably ) figuring that if they are so prevalent they must be legal . Many small employers are also in this situation . Large employers like Fox Searchlight probably know it 's illegal but think they can get away with it . To those answering something like " it 's my time , I can do what I want with it " : * Nobody would be punishing interns , they 'd punish employers . * Illegal internship programs undermine the market for paid work , and undercut laws like the minimum wage . * Few people really * * want * * to work for no pay . They work for no pay because they think it will help their employment prospects later . The Fair Labor Standards Act is supposed to prevent employers from making unpaid work a grudgingly accepted prerequisite to a paid career . If it were properly enforced , it would . * Unpaid internships are classist , because only already - wealthy people can afford to work for no pay in order to break into a field . * Unpaid internships are racist and sexist , because unpaid interns are not covered by the employment provisions in the Civil Rights Act . This means that employers are free to racially discriminate against or sexually harass their unpaid interns ( in most states ) .