Let us start by separating the two concepts in the question , and in the sub - question . Numbers are as [ animwrangler ] ( URL_0 ) so nicely put it , just numbers . We use numbers to describe the quantity of something . It is useful to have numbers , as we can say stuff like this to our mom : I need 5 cakes , because we are 4 people , and I do n't know if my friend will show up later . Adding to the complexity of numbers , is the measurement units . In the example above , I used the non - precise unit " cake " . However as we do not agree on the size of a cake , we do not know if our mom brings home 5 muffin sized cakes , or 5 wedding cake styled cakes . This may be a problem if we want a specific amount of cake for each friend . So we have invented a unit system . We can now specify to our mom : " I need 5 units of cake , each weighing 200 grams , because we are 4 people , and I do n't know if my friend will show up later , and I think that we can eat 200 grams of cake per person . " and this works well if both our mom , and our selves agree on how much a gram of cake is . we have agreed on a few well defined units for : weight , volumes , areas , distances , time , amount of light , volume of sound , and for somethings like pressure we can combine other units . However it leads to some strange side effects , when comparing different measurements : * having 0.5 Liters of water , and trying to figure the weight of it . * having 0.5 Liters of air , and trying to figure the weight . The two materials does not weigh the same , even though there is exactly the same amount of it , if we measure the volume .. This is where the language math is our friend . [ IskaneOnReddit ] ( URL_1 ) so perfectly states that math is a language , that we have developed for describing how the universe works . The language allows us to create rules like : * * If you know the material , and the volume , you can always determine the weight of something . * * and the language is so precise , and accurate , that if you have the rule mentioned above , you can state : Given the rule above , it must follow that , When I know the material and weight , I can determine the volume . or Given the rule above , it must follow that , When I know the weight and volume , I determine the material ... The rules like the example above , is created by physicists . They have been doing that for hundreds of years , and have found incredibly many rules , that describe almost anything . The rules are all explained in the math language . Another interesting feature of math , is that we can combine rules , so we can take one rule like : * 1 : Acceleration is the rate of change of the speed of an object . * 2 : ( gravity ): Everything accelerates towards the earth , the acceleration depends only on the distance to the centre of the earth . * 3 : ( every action has an equal and opposite reaction ): If we did not stand on the ground , and threw something in one direction , we would ourselves move in the opposite direction , with an acceleration determined by the difference in mass on us , and on the thrown object . These 3 rules are in fact enough ( when combined ) to explain , how we can jump : * * First use rule 3 , by pushing our feet towards the ground very quickly * * , this accelerates the earth downwards , but as the earth is much heavier than you , the acceleration is so small that we can not measure it . However you also accelerate , away from the earth ( upwards ) , and you weigh much less than the earth , so you will move much faster , and this we can easily see . Your body will gain speed , and at some point , you upward speed is so high , that the feet can not continue to touch the ground , and you fly upwards :) Unfortunately from this moment on , your upwards speed decreases , due to the downward acceleration , and after some time the speed is zero . This is the top height of the jump , and as you keep accelerating downwards , you will after some time regain contact with the ground . The same rules apply for a canon , and in fact the first thoughts on planning a trip to the moon was based on a large cannon . We can use the three rules to calculate how large the initial jump ( upwards accelleration ) needs to be , if the pinnacle of our jump , is to be at the same distance to earth as the moon . We can also calculate by inserting numbers into those mathematical rules , that if we get high enough , without loosing too much speed , the downwards accelleration ( gravity ) becomes so small , that we will continue upwards away from the earth , and will continue forever . - however as we go up , we will notice that all kind of strange things start to influence our flight . It could be the fact that the earth rotates , so our jump will also rotate , as we had the same rotation speed as the earth when we started the jump , or the slowing down to air resistance . but all those fenomena have been sufficiently well explained by physicians as mathematical rule , so we can add them into our calculations , and come up with an extremely good prediction on what will happen on the flight ( movement wise ) . - however this will not get us to the moon , as some things will happen underway which we can not know in advance , like sudden change in wind directions . As we does not know about it we can not predict it with math . So onboard our vessel we add small rockets , ( machines that throw away some material in a specific direction ) . The rockets allow us to adjust the movements . Not by much , but enough to compensate for those small unpredictable things . we could add a pilot , that did this , and it could work , but the small corrections needs to be done extremely precise and fast , and it is difficult to do , so instead we use math in a computer , to predict where we would end up if we did n't do anything , and then calculate how much we should do to hit the moon . As we continue to recalculate this , until we actually hit the moon , it works wonderfully :) TLDR ; explained with layman terms to you , as if you were 5 . - required some intermediate explanations to get there .