I take Ambian and have the same problem . I ca n't give you an exact reason because I think there are multiple reasons it is or hit or miss . But if you wanted some anecdotal evidence on what increases my chances for it working : 1 ) Empty stomach for sure . I try to not eat about 2 - 3 hours before I plan on taking it . This means your stomach is emptying from its last meal , but you wo n't be starving either . 2 ) I drop mine in a small amount of water and let it dissolve first . I then rinse the glass and drink that to get any residual drug on the glass . 3 ) Anywhere from 15 - 30 minutes before , I take an antacid / H2 blocker combo like [ this ] ( URL_0 ) . Someone with a little more education on this may correct me but my reasoning for this was because some drugs are more absorbed in the stomach and some are better absorbed in the small intestine . I believe that Ambian is better absorbed in the small intestine . ( This is why giving it with food would be a bad idea as that means your stomach is going to hold on to the food until it is broken down and then it will begin to be released to the small intestine . So the drug is just sitting there in your stomach instead of being absorbed . ) Right , so the reason I think Ambian is absorbed in the small intestine is because if you look at the drug name , it 's called zolpidem tartrate . Again , not certain , but I believe the purpose of the tartrate is to " soak - up " protons so that the environment is a little more basic , Leaving the drug in its uncharged form , which is the form it needs to be in order to be absorbed . So , if you are like me , and have constant heartburn anyway , it seems to help with absorption . Also , the antacid I linked has famotidine in it . There is an analogue of this drug called cimetidine , which is known to have drug interactions in the liver . For Ambian , there is some evidence of a slight interaction with cimetidine although I ca n't find the paper right now . If I remember correctly , this just means that your liver would take longer to break down Ambian , thereby prolonging it 's effect . Which would n't be so great if you had to be up early . Normally , Ambian clears from your system rather quickly . This is n't medical advice . This is just what I do and why I do it . Hope it helps .