This is an excellent question and very hard to explain at an elementary school level . With that said , let 's start off by saying that two particles are considered entangled when their correlations satisfy Bell inequalities . This does n't answer how to explain it without knowing what correlations or bell inequalities are , but it 's the technical working definition . Picture two light particles separated by a very large distance , and measure their polarizations . If they 're so far apart that light could not have gone between the two of them in the time it took you to measure their polarization , AND their is a relationship between the two polarizations , then they are entangled . So we know how to tell if they 're entangled . So how do we actually entangle them ? One way is through quantum interference . In quantum mechanics , the " state " of a particle is represented by a " wavefunction " . Unlike an electric wave , there is nothing we know of that is actually waving . It does tell you the probability of measuring a particle or particle properties , though . Since it 's a wave , however , it posses wave properties like interference . If a crest and trough line up , the wave amplitude goes to zero at that point . One experiment where they tested this was the " Hong - Ou - Mandel " experiment . They sent two identical photons in two sides of a " beamsplitter " ( a device which splits light 50:50 ) and measured how often the two photons came out different sides or the same side . It turns out that the path for photons to come out different sides ( since there 's two ways for that to happen ) cancel out , and you only ever see two come out either side . The final state of the system is entangled : the two possible output states are in an equal " superposition " . There are other ways of entangling particles , though . Another commonly cited entanglement phenomena is in positronium ( an electron and its antiparticle orbiting each other ) . When the electron and positron ( anti - electron ) annihilate they have a certain probability to emit two photons in opposite directions with unknown but correlated polarizations . That is , when you measure the two photons they will always have polarizations at 90 degrees to each other no matter how far apart they are .