I encourage you to work on critical thinking with regards to the media . This is not criticism of you , not at all , but when you can listen to Fox News and _ hear _ what they 're doing that people criticize , you will become far more able to make your own independent decision than like 85 - 90 percent of Americans - and it 's a skill that applies to all media outlets . Fox News ( and to a lesser but very real extent MSNBC ) are great places to practice this . Here 's an example : Say that Obama went to a United Nations conference and played a game of golf with David Cameron ( the conservative prime minister of the UK ) while the conference was out of session . These are the facts . _ how _ the facts are presented is mostly where people get upset about media slant . A middling pro - Obama headline ( like one might see on MSNBC ) might say , " Obama reaches across the aisle to demonstrate goodwill to foreign conservative UK Prime Minister David Cameron " a more extreme anti - Obama headline ( like one might see on Fox News ) might say , " Obama leaves United Nations conference ; spends thousands of dollars to waste time with David Cameron instead of focusing on domestic problems " Each of these are _ presuming something _ on the facts . For all we know , Obama and Cameron just both like golf . They may never have talked about politics at all , and the conference was out of session so there was little work to be done . However , the media slant invents a story _ that interprets the facts in a way that 's designed to gain viewership , not to report the story _ . They 're doing what tabloids do ; the difference is that we all generally know that tabloids are not real news , they 're entertainment . Fox is absolutely extreme about this : they often misrepresent facts , cherry - picking data they want to show , inferring motives on the people in the story , and so on . If you go to [ Your Logical Fallacy Is ] ( URL_3 ) and study up on all of the different logical fallacies , you 'll start to see them all the time when listening to _ any _ mainstream news outlet . Fox News is the prime example of this , so people focus on them , but you 'll hear these in MSNBC as well . I have no problem with this if people understood that they were watching entertainment ; for instance , watching The Daily Show , it 's clear that it 's an entertainment show whose premise is based on news items . Fox News _ represents itself as actual news _ , though , and enough people believe it , that [ studies have found that watching Fox News makes you less informed about the world than watching no news at all ] ( URL_1 ) . EDIT : I was remiss on my original statement for the link above , as others have pointed out , by not mentioning that exclusive viewers of MSNBC were , in this study , _ also _ less informed than the " no news " population . I was focusing on Fox News because they were the direct subject of the question , but they both do disservice to their viewers ' knowledge of what 's going on insofar as this study found . I thought I 'd add in some more information about the accuracy of news networks : I like [ PolitiFact ] ( URL_2 ) as an independent measure of the truthfulness of media statements for stuff like this . They have some meters to measure [ how well networks are doing in reporting facts ] ( URL_0 ) which are interesting with regards to this discussion