Good question ! First off , accents are often solely based on geographical factors . In America , for example , accents in the south tend to have a " drawl , " where words are accented in different places . Compared to their northern counterparts , who tend to speak with word accents in their dictionary defined areas , there 's a night and day difference . You may be thinking , " well , that 's all fine and good , but where did these accents come in the first place ? Why do n't we all speak with the same accent ? " The answers to these questions can be specifically attributed to the evolution of a language . Sticking with English here . English itself is typically said to have three stages , Early English , Middle English , and Modern English . Geoffrey Chaucer , a poet in the 14th and 15th centuries , wrote his English in a manner we would scarcely be able to discern in modern day English . This is important because Chaucer 's English is still categorized as modern English . This passage from his Canterbury Tales shows just how different the language has come in a few hundred years . Whan that Aprill , with his shoures soote The droghte of March hath perced to the roote It 's important to factor culture into this discussion , since culture is the main reason why language evolves . Words like ' troll ' , ' booty ' , and ' YOLO ' , have all derived from modern day pop culture . In the past , language changed almost exclusively due to literature . It 's said Shakespeare alone contributed 1700 unique words to the English language . From there , certain factors such as literacy , socio - economic status , and even certain health issues all contribute to language , and as consequence affect accents . Over time , as populations migrate and collect in dense areas , these factors blend and transform into new accents . The reason why you see a stark difference between the south US and northern US is due to who primarily settled there . In the south you had rich landowners , who , to separate themselves from the rest of the population , brought their " proper " language with them from Europe . This , mixed with the many African dialects that came over in early America , has evolved into what we hear today . Merchant class citizens typically settled in the north . Later Scandinavian influence ( especially in the midwest ) has evolved into what we hear today . As for changing accents ... You actually can and will develop a new accent over time if you find yourself among a population who has a completely different accent to you . I 'm a Minnesotan . We typically have a very recognizable accent in that we often pronounce our ' o 's with a long syllable . When I visit family from as close as Indiana I notice my accent starts to change ever so slightly to have more of that drawl . Spend enough time around different accents , and your accent will change . TL;DR Accents and languages have their own evolution . Social factors have a huge impact on why we speak the way we speak . Edit : Sorry about the formatting ... I 'll try to fix it later . Stupid mobile . Edit 2 : I realize this is n't necessarily ELI5 , but I hope it helps .