The gun works as others have described , but there 's a little bit more to an actual projectile . In it simplest for , it 's a conductive metal ball or slug . When the gun is fired , current flows through the hunk of metal and it is pushed out as others have described . This method is rather primitive though . The large amount of friction , on top of the heating from the current , cause both the projectile and rails to heat of immensely which can damage the rails giving them a short lifetime . As well , this forces you to use copper or aluminum for the projectile , as you want as high as conductivity as possible , but this is counter productive to making a good weapon . More advanced railgun projectiles , like those that are actually being tested for military purposes , are a little more complex than a piece of metal stick between the rails . Firstly , the actual projectile does n't actually touch the rails nor is it mean to carry the current . It 's a dense metal , like tungsten or depleted uranium , shaped like a dart which makes for deadly projectile even at very long ranges that can peirce pretty much anything . The actual projectile is incased in what is known as a sabot . This is a little casing that surrounds it that fits the rail gun barrel . It 's made from two or more pieces that surround it and are n't actually attached . When it leaves the leaves the barrel these sabot pieces detach from the projectile . [ Here 's ] ( URL_0 ) a picture of what I mean , though this is a sabot from a conventional gun but the idea I the same . The sabot casing is made from highly conductive copper or aluminum , allowing it to conduct the current very well . Where the sabot touches the rails , there is usually thin strips of metal or a metal wool . When the current starts flowing this thin metal near instantly vaporizes into a highly conductive plasma . A plasma is basically a conductive gas . The plasma and the sabot are pushed down the rails together as they both conduct the current , but with a plasma touching the rails rather than metal friction is pretty much eliminated . This gives the rails a longer lifespan and slows down the projectile less .