This is a bit of a long story so bear with me . So I worked for a while in produce in a large supermarket as a young inquisitive school kid . The produce manager was a wise old man who had dealt with that job longer than I 've been alive . To pass the time i would ask him about lots of things we came across . Partially to test him and see if he knew , mostly because he almost always knew and the answers were interesting . We did a big citrus sale every year . After loading , stacking , checking dates and sources , rotating , and shelving near a ton of assorted oranges and other similar citrus , I noticed one thing . None of it was from Florida ! Thinking I finally had a question to stump the boss man , I asked him . " Why do n't we sell any oranges from Florida ? " " We do . " " No way . Every box I checked today was from someplace other than Florida . " " You did n't check the right boxes . " " Show me where the Florida oranges are then old man . " He took me to the orange juice . Nearly every single orange juice across the board was Florida orange juice . Frustrated i even checked the frozen section of the store . Every last one there . " Why is it only florida oranges that make juice ? Surely Florida oranges are good enough to sell too . I 've eaten oranges fresh off the tree from there . " " You 're right . You can only eat them there tho . " Perplexed ? I was too . " You remember having to check the sources of all the oranges right ? " " Yea . I had to make the tags for the shelves for it too . " " You 're not allowed to sell fresh Florida oranges outside of Florida . They carry plant infections that right now are only found in Florida . To prevent them from spreading , they have to either be processed into juice or sold within the state . " Since Florida produces a large market share of oranges , and nearly all of the orange juice , prices are very low in comparison to oranges from other places . They are shoehorned into a tiny market with extreme supply . The only way to get rid of all their juice is to sell it cheap . It just so happens to be a bit cheaper than fresh oranges . At least in the US . Since you used liters as a unit of measurement you might be from someplace which does n't produce locally . In that case , the added cost of fresh oranges is from logistics . It is more costly to move fresh fruit than it is to move comparable amounts of " liquid fruit . " Transportation is made even cheaper by concentrating it initially , then adding water later .