* * TL;DR : A Hypercube is a cube in 4 dimensions , as opposed to a normal cube that only has 3 dimensions . What we see is the ' shadow ' of the hypercube pass trough our own dimension * * Let 's start by defining the dimensions . I assume you know what 3D is . 3D a geometrical concept where locations are measured in 3 numbers . { x , y , z } . You live in a 3d world . Everything you see is in 3D. Now , I also assume that you 're familiar with 2D. Things in 2D can be described with 2 numbers . { x , y } . A pixel on your screen for instance has an x and y position . The points on your high school graph / plot has x location and y location . 1D is the same concept . Just a line . You can mark a location on a line with 1 number , the length from one end of the line and to that location . But if there is 3D , and 2D , and 1D , there can also be 4D , and 5D , and 6D. There can be an infinte - D if you care to count . The rules of all those dimensions are the same . For a dimension N you must use N numbers to describe a location in it . so , the fourth dimension has a 4 point system . { x , y , z , w}(I think it was W , do n't kill me for it ) . A hypercube is a cube , but in 4D. Imagine it like this : A 3D cube is a cube , but a 2D ' cube ' is just a rectangle . A 2D circle is a sphere in 3D. Each shape that has a definition also has a definition in other dimension , they just change a bit to reflect and add the new dimension . A hypercube is the 4D version of the cube , the rectangle . . Now , we can not see the fourth dimension , can we ? We ca n't even imagine it . but we can understand the third dimension . a 3d Plane to 4D is just what a 2D plane is to 3D. a person in two dimensions would n't see us at all , and would n't understand a third dimension like we do n't understand a fourth one . But if a cube is to pass trough a paper that flat lander would see the cube as it passes as lines , changing and altering . It 's a bit hard to explain . Imagine That you would have a wall , cut a thin strip in it to look trough , and watch someone walk past it . You can only see a small part of him at a time , only what is currently passing the strip . you 'd first see a bit of the nose , then that bit would go away and the first bit of face appears , then that goes away and you see the eye and torso e.t.c . what is happening here is a cube passing trough our dimension , or the 2D shadow of it . The 3D ' shapes ' are just bits of the cube that are currently passing trough our slit that we can see . somewhere in the 4th dimension the rest of the cube is connected to what we see , but we just ca n't see it . as it passes and new areas of the cube passes by us the 3D shape on the screen morphs and changes to reflect how the 3D component of the 4D cube currently looks like from our perspective . . I may have gotten a bit off track , but that 's basically it . It 's a mathematical representation of what a 4D cube would look like if we would slide it trough our own dimension .