When you 're reading you 're doing two things . The first thing you do is recognizing word images and stringing them up into sentences . Recognizing word images is ' mechanical ' in the sense that any skill you 've learned to do is mechanical , like driving a car or riding a bike or playing tennis or playing tetris or eating with a knife and fork and so on . You 're just going through the motions , basically , and because you 've practiced those skills so much simply by doing them often you can exercise them even without being aware of them . This is why you can drive home from work and think about that way too short skirt Stacy was wearing and what a horrible skank she is at the same time . The second thing you do when you 're reading is interpreting or imagining what happens in the story . This requires your attention , and is not something you can do on auto - pilot . When your attention drifts from what you were imagining , what you were imagining goes away , and you start imagining whatever it is your attention drifted to . When you 're reading and you suddenly find you 've not retained anything for the last couple of lines / paragraphs / pages , you 've been executing the mechanical skill of reading but not the interpretative or imaginative skill of reading . Usually this does n't matter , because most tasks only require one or the other , but when it happens when you 're reading you do notice it because reading requires both . edit : what happens in your brain is that neurons fire based on ion levels on different sides of membranes and not much else . Because of the way the brain has evolved , contemporary neuroscience has a really hard time pinning any phenomenological ( basically , something we notice in our experience ) effect to a specific pattern of neural activation . That does n't stop them from trying ( just look at the enormity of the neural correlates of consciousness literature for example ) but it does mean that a real answer to your question in terms of brain ( rather than mind ) processes is still a way off , scientifically speaking .