Seems like a lot of answers here are mostly guesses , but some people go the idea right . Reddit does not work like most sites . The " pages " you go to are n't really pages . For reddits sorting to work , it has to keep all posts sorted . However , having all posts loaded and sorted would take forever to load and would just be bad website design . In fact it 's not possible . So reddit will paginate it . The way reddit does it , is every time you press next or go to the next page , it takes the i d of the last post you saw , and tells the system " here is the last post I saw , please calculate the next 25 " And so that 's what reddit does . It takes the last post you did see , then finds the next 25 ( or whatever your settings are ) The upside of this system is that : 1 . Content is dynamically generated - meaning if you go to page 1 , and in the time it takes you to go to page two , something was posted and got 1000 upvotes right away , you will see it on the next page load 2 . Reddit becomes paginated and easier to load and use . --- However there are downsides too , and these are both explained by the sorting algorithm . Reddits hot system is a mathematical algorithm . It uses votes and time and all sorts of little things . However , it 's not perfect . It 's just a formula that tries to calculate things . The downsides are 1 . Duplicates - it 's common and possible to go to page 2 and see some posts you saw on page 1 2 . " Running out of reddit " - this happens as well , when the mathematical algorithm ca n't find anymore posts . Since something is displayed as " give me the sorted posts after X " if X does n't have 25 posts that are sorted , it will error out . The system just ca n't sort right , and when you ask for the next 25 , it will just say " sorry boss , got nothin . " --- This happens most when you take too long to go to the next page , as time decay in reddit posts can be heavy . edit : Someone said in this thread that the timer of subreddits to show you on the front page has expired , which is very likely to actually be the case here .