Three main things : * Timbre ( Which overtones - I 'll explain what those are soon - are most present in the sound ) * Envelope . This describes the amplitude shape of the sound - how hard is the attack , how long does the attack stay that way , how long does the sound last , and how quickly does the sound decay ? In a synthesizer , you can control all of these components through something called ADSR ( Attack - Decay - Sustain - Release ) . * Additional Noise ( The sound of the guitar amp hum , the squeak of a piano pedal , the rosin of the bow on the violin string , etc ) Now , Timbre . Notes are made of vibrations . Imagine a vibrating string . That string vibrates along its entire length , but it also vibrates along divisions of that length . The smaller the divisions , the higher the notes . This means that inside of every note you hear are several , fainter , higher notes . These are called partials , overtones , or harmonics . An instrument 's timbre is decided largely by the * balance * of those overtones . A flute , for example , has a very pure overtone expression with mostly lower , consonant ( meaning , for ELI5 purposes , " pleasant " ) partials . This gives it a clear sound . A distorted electric guitar , by contrast , has a lot of presence in its higher partials , which gives it more of a jagged quality . This is an over - simplified version , but all you need to know is that the overtone pattern determines much of the quality of the sound . You can actually hear the overtone series in your own voice , because each vowel brings out a different overtone . Sing a medium - low note in your range , clearly , and switch slowly between " ooh " and " ee " - you should hear , faintly , a note above the note you 're singing that suddenly gets higher and louder when you sing the " ee " . If you get good enough at this , you can do what [ this weird awesome lady ] ( URL_0 ) does and sing two notes at the same time . The same thing that makes two of your vowels sound different - even though they 're almost identical sounds coming from the same voice - is what makes two instruments sound different : overtones . But what happens if two instruments have similar overtone profiles ? A trumpet and an oboe , for example , have almost identical timbres . Here we want to look at our envelope , particularly our attack . A trumpet has a very crisp , biting attack that 's very fast , while an oboe has a much more mellow attack . If we jump into the middle of an oboe or trumpet note , it 's hard to hear the difference - but that initial attack & sputter in the trumpet makes the difference very clear ! The vocal equivalent of this would be consonants . Finally , noise . In addition to the overtone series and the envelope , there are all sorts of noises that go along with a sound that we may not consider as musical but are nonetheless important . The sound of additional air coming through a trumpet , the rattle in somebody 's voice when they sing a note too early in the morning , the buzz of a guitar amplifier . Our ear takes all of these clues , puts them together , and - voila ! - you 've perceived not just what the note is , but what kind of instrument is making the note !