I celebrated Kwanzaa for a period of 5 - 6 years with my family when I was a child . My experience was very positive , and I 'm glad I celebrated it , as it gave me an interest in learning more about the various cultures / countries in Africa . Many black Americans celebrate Kwanzaa , but the majority do not . It probably would n't be a good idea to give your black friends / coworkers / in - laws Kwanzaa cards , unless you know for sure they celebrate it . Kwanzaa for my family was a time where we could get together with other like - minded people ( which often included non - black people who were interested in Kwanzaa ) who simply wished for alternatives during the holiday season . There was no Santa Claus , no Church , no Jesus , no people asking you to spend your hard - earned money on things you did n't need . We got together , ate good food , often learned something about West / East African cultures and history , and just had a good time being together . Kwanzaa varies for the people who celebrate it . Some see it as a political celebration , and there is a lot of posturing , while others enjoy the connection it brings with the community . My family celebrated Kwanzaa because it allowed us to connect with our ancestors in West Africa , even via blended / made - up traditions . The first year of Kwanzaa , my family celebrated all seven days , and gave presents to each other each day . The presents could not be bought ; that is , we had to give something of * ours * to other members of our family . It was a cool experience . We also went to local events in our ( mixed ) community . In the later years , we only went to local Kwanzaa events and eventually stopped . /u / HiterWasASexyMofo is wrong about many things concerning Kwanzaa . 1 . The reason why Swahili / Kiswahili was chosen as the language of Kwanzaa is because it is the language of the pan - African movement that started in East Africa ( where Swahili is a unifying language in the region ) . This is not exclusive to Kwanzaa , as many black - power movements and figures used Swahili in solidarity with those in [ East ] Africa . 2 . Kwanzaa does not further " racial divisiveness . " Kwanzaa began as a way to connect African Americans with the " African " part of their heritage , a heritage that many black people unfortunately saw as inherently negative or less - than . Further , non - black people are welcome in Kwanzaa celebrations , and can celebrate it with their non - black families if they wish . 3 . Kwanzaa was not invented " by a US prisoner " in the 60s . Karenga was convicted of assault in the early 1970s . This was after the creation of Kwanzaa . TL;DR : Light some red , black , and green candles , shout * harambe ! * a couple of times , and chow down on Kwanzaa cake : URL_0