AK47s robustness and reliability has nothing to do with its popularity . The reasons for popularity are two : First reason is that an AK47 is extremely easy to manufacture from basic materials and following in the best Soviet tradition you do not need high tolerances to make it work so the parts do n't need to be perfect . The only automatic guns which were simpler than an AK were British Sten and American Grease Gun from WW2 . Unlike both of them AK is a better and more reliable and is an actual assault rifle capable of shooting rifle ammunition - proper 7.62 mm bullets . This meant it was the perfect weapon for developing countries without a huge industrial base - most of the third world . You did n't need huge factories and skilled workforce . The second reason was political . AK was licensed for close to nothing by the USSR to every country which wanted to get on anti - imperialist bandwagon . It was also exported in huge amounts directly from the USSR . You wanted to overthrow imperialists ! Here you go . That 's how China got their AK clones . That 's how Vietcong and other insurgent movements in South East Asia got theirs . That 's how half of Africa got theirs . It was also the standard weapon of the Warsaw Pact armies . [ Here ] ( URL_1 ) is a list of countries which produced their variants of AK47 either on license or without it . When those countries wanted to earn some money they were selling AK47s to governments , new regimes , insurgent forces , revolutionaries ... And because there were so many copies , variants and knock - offs it was near impossible to track down which formal variant or license was used to manufacture which rifle . Combine that with the general approach to licenses in the Soviet Union ( capitalist nonsense ! ) and you essentially get an * * Open Source Assault Rifle * * . Anyone anywhere with access to basic metalworking tools could build an AK47 . That would not be possible with Western mode of arms production which was proprietary and made for profit and if someone started knocking off an M16 or FN Fal there would be court cases and other similar stuff . So if you needed cheap gun that you can manufacture at home when the need arises AK47 was your pick ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- As for the reasons why it was n't adopted by Western armies there are again two reasons which mirror the causes of Ak47 's huge * non*commercial success First was that AKs robustness , simplicity and reliability came at the expense of accuracy and weight . AK47s were barely accurate beyond 100 - 200 m and they were heavy and heavier still if made from poor quality materials . They were also relatively uncomfortable to use . An AK is a bit clunky in handling which is why they were constantly improved . Ak74 which was the 5.45 mm variant was one such improvement . The Israelis had modified the AK to produce their standard rifle IAI Galil . The main advantage of AKs were numbers and low cost . Many countries went the opposite route and manufactured more sophisticated and accurate weapons that tried to improve on the design . While Americans worked through more classic M16 to M4 the Brits , French and some other countries tried [ bullpup ] ( URL_0 ) configuration in their SA80 , AUG , FAMAS etc . Second reason was political naturally . Apart from the awkwardness of using an enemy design in the West selling arms was a huge and profitable * business * . Defense spending is as much about providing tools for defense as it is about jobs for voters and kick - offs to donors . Large European countries had arms manufacturers which wanted to do something more than produce guns on American license because a ) it is less profitable with license fees b ) less prospective for future operations . So the ability to produce guns at home coupled with protectionist approach to most " defense industries " meant that every country with its own factory capable of building decent guns was making their own model . And sometimes that meant a highly modified AK ! Just for the sake of selling an unique product on their own rules . Small countries were buying guns produced by larger manufacturers in government - sponsored deals where half of the negotiations to buy say FN guns or M16s would be not between the ministry of defense and the manufacturer but between the politicians of both countries negotiating who is going to take what bribe .