Mainboard : Circuit board that lets all your PC components communicate via buses and does some low level computation . Also collects all inputs and deliver all outputs . CPU/"Processor " : Main computing unit . Does all the heavy lifting by getting fed input , memory from your drives and computing outputs . Has small storage named " cache " that is very fast and is basically equivalent to you counting your fingers while adding 2 + 3 . GPU/"Video Card " : The card is technically just another circuit board on which the GPU is located . This is just a specialized processor that is very good at calculating many simple things at the same time ( like the colors of the pixels on your screen ) . It gets information what to display from your CPU , generates images and feeds them to your screen . GHz : Number of clock changes . VERY BASICALLY any processor does this : read data - compute - write new data . Each of these steps take up a few clocks . So the more clocks happen in a second , the more computations take place and the faster the processor works . This is influenced by multicore and general core design so a 3GHz processor from today is multiple times faster than a 3GHz processor from 8 years ago . RAM/"Memory " : The memory banks on your Mainboard . These are 100x faster than your Hard Drives and still MUCH slower than the CPU cache . Basically a middle ground . Think writing the numbers on a sheet of paper while dividing 1199/32 and counting the carry on your fingers ( cache ) . A basic operation example looks like this : From when you booted your PC , there is already a table on how letters are supposed to look stored in your RAM . If you press a letter on your keyboard now , the input code ( for example " 82 " in binary ) is transmitted by your Mainboard to your CPU . The CPU now utilizes its cache and executes various " op codes " that basically tell it to take the letter code , grab the relevant info from the RAM , write it back into the memory of the program you are using and at the same time tell your GPU that it shall update the current screen with the new letter " R " at a certain position .