So , lots to cover , I 'll try to be brief , and you can ask for more details if you need them . Modern 3d glasses work through polarized light . The waves in light move in a specific direction ( imagine them waving up and down , or left and right , etc . ) . Normally , most light is a jumbled up mix of all directions , but you can force light to become polarized - to all move in the same direction . 3D glasses have two different lenses . For simplicity , lets say one is polarized up / down , and the other left / right . At the movie , they project two versions of the movie simultaneously , one polarized u / d , the other l / r. Each movie can only pass through the lens with the same polarization - Your eye behind a l / r lens see the l / r movie , and the u / d lens sees the u / d movie . That way , they can show subtly different images to each eye , create a 3D effect , and no red / blue lenses are needed . When you look in a mirror , and can see your eyes through the lenses , light is hitting your face , passing out through the lenses , bouncing off the mirror , and going back through the lenses and into your eyes . When it leaves your face going out , the light from each eye has to adopt the polarization of that lens ( or , really , the lens blocks all the light not polarized correctly ) . So only U / d light bounces off your U / d eye , l / r to l / r. The light maintains this polarization as it bounces off the mirror and comes back . If you have both eyes open , no problem . L / r eye sees l / r eye , u / d sees u / d , and your brain can see both eyes . But if you close u / d eye , the l / r eye ca n't see the light from that eye , and so the lens appears to " go black . " Side note : you can use 3D lenses to spot polarized light in other places ! Some types of digital screens are polarized , and the sky on a bright day is fairly polarized . To test it , put on the glasses , close one eye , and then tilt your head back and forth . A source of polarized light will dim and brighten as you line up the polarity of your glasses with the polarity of the light . Hope that helps !