Well , we can rule out the online " IQ " tests as shams , there is no point in believing them . As other in this thread have pointed out , you need to give a proctored IQ test if you want a reasonable estimate of your IQ . Now we come to the question of whether having a higher IQ gives a person a significant advantage over someone with a lower IQ . To answer this I 'm going to draw deeply on what I read in Malcolm Gladwell 's Outliers . He gave the example of a man , who is quite possibly the most intelligent man on the planet ( his IQ is 40 points over Einstein 's ) . This genius was a Bar Bouncer for most of his adult life , he now lives on a farm and works on physics theories but he does n't even have a Bachelors degree to his name . In the end , he did n't live up to his potential . Another good example that he gives is of the [ Genetic Studies of Genius ] ( URL_0 ) which is a study conducted over decades to track the children in the state of California back in the 1910s who gave a proctored IQ test and were deemed geniuses . After tracking these kids through most of their lives the study found that some of them became exceptional in their fields , but many of them went on to live mundane lives , not doing anything equivalent to what their IQ suggested they were capable of doing . So why was this , why were n't these kids who were the top 1 % of the IQ bracket not the leading lights of their fields ? It 's because humans are more complicated than that . Emotions , personality , attitudes , the willingness to work with others are just some of things you need to succeed in life . Additionally , just because someone has a higher IQ does not preclude him / her from mental illnesses . Additionally , Gladwell also points out that most jobs in our society just need us to be of average or just above average IQ ( around 115 - 120 ) this is enough to graduate from college and work in demanding jobs such as engineering , architecture , investment banking . Most of us actually fit into this bracket ( as someone described , its a bell curve ) . Beyond this bracket , additional IQ points wo nt make significant changes to your earning potential / career . IQ is relevant but only as one of many important attributes a person should have , willingness to work with others , a good attitude , good values , and the willingness to work very very hard are all part of this mix . You ca n't determine what a person is like , or might turn out like if you just look at one small part of what makes him who he is . tl;dr - Lots of people with high IQs did n't do well in life . Most people have sufficient IQ to handle most of the jobs that society has to offer . You ca n't understand a person just by his IQ , you need to look at his values , personality etc .