There are two [ different designs ] ( URL_0 ): Siphonic and Wash Down . > BOWL SIZE Siphonic flushing requires a bigger elongated bowl to fill water properly to flush compared to the compact version of the wash down . Most Europeans prefer the space - saving models whilst elongated versions are preferred in the United States , thus , US type toilets to siphonic and European toilets to wash down . > WATER SAVING Wash down toilets is usually equipped with a DUAL FLUSHING mechanism that can accommodate 3 or 6 gallons per flush for solid or liquid waste . In contrast , siphonic toilets require 6 gallons or more to flush properly . Some countries even mandate 4.5 gallon flush capacity . ( Dual flushing is not advisable for siphonic systems ) > TRAPWAY Siphonic has a greater tendency to clog due to the smaller trapway . Since wash down does not need this suction , it has a larger trapway but leaves less water on the bowl after flushing compared to the half full of the siphonic version . Splashing sometimes occurs when solid waste hits the water for wash down versions . This can be minimized by placing a piece of toilet paper over the water . > SPARE PARTS AND MAINTENANCE Over time , because of the impurities of our water , silicon or rubber washers for both toilets need to be changed . ( Water seepage will occur ) A wash down toilet has top button flush , ABS plastic float valve and flush valve which rarely need replacement . > Siphonic type usually comes with the side lever , ABS plastic float valve and flush valve . Some versions have a float ball and chain which need to be replaced more often . ( Replacement parts are generally sold in major hardware stores . ) > CLEANING Depending on the holes around the bowl rim where the water comes out , some wash down toilets tend to have “ water marks ” . Duravit ’s special coating called “ wondergliss ” is a solution for this problem . This special coating will last for quite sometime as long as no harsh chemicals or solutions are used in cleaning the bowl . > Europeans therefore prefer having a toilet brush as a part of their bath accessories over the plunger that is more for the clogging of a siphonic toilet . So make sure you buy a good quality siphonic toilet or you end up having the same maintenance issue of malls where they throwing tissue papers in the bowl is discouraged . * * TL;DR * * European style ones sometimes leave marks on the bowl , USA style ones sometimes clog and flood the room .