Software developer here , > It seems to me that since every computer will be made out of pre - fed algorithms That 's not accurate . I would n't necessarily call it wrong , but too simplistic . There are algorithms called " genetic algorithms . " The key of these algorithms is that a data stream that is exactly analogous to DNA dictates the behavior of the system , while the algorithm is static and controls mutation , breeding , and fitness . These equations can be used for just about anything . You can literally breed more fuel efficient engines , more aerodynamic cars and planes , you can teach robots to do their job , virtual creatures to walk , or survive in their virtual environments ; these algorithms do make their way into physical robots in industrial production and research labs . The DNA data can be arbitrarily long and represent arbitrarily complicated behavior . To some degree , complexity can be so high that humans basically ca n't explain how it 's working . One famous demonstration used genetic algorithms to configure a programmable processor to recognize human voice . After 40k generations , in software , over the course of a couple weeks , the hardware device was able to identify a human voice perfectly , and the scientists had absolutely no clue how it worked . Parts of the circuit were wired in weird ways and did n't connect to anything . When they removed that part of the circuit , the device stopped working . They could only reason that the algorithm implicitly took advantage of some electrical resonance or bleeding across circuits of that exact , particular , specific processor ( there are always manufacture flaws and variations between chips in a batch ) . There are software and now some fantastic hardware that represents neurons of the brain . These virtual neurons can be wired into a network , usually virtually . They 're allowed to rewire themselves with static algorithms that determine when a change is necessary , and each neuron can " learn " ; they use little equations to determine if they 're supposed to signal their outputs depending on their inputs , and this builds neural path ways . These algorithms are used in cochlear ( hearing ) implants , they 're used in stock market trading , they 're used in robots and vision systems , they 're popular in " learning AI " . Robots and virtual creatures can learn to walk and navigate a maze . They can simulate learning and memory . You 're basically making a little brain . In fact , Google finished a research project a few months ago where they simulated a small brain . The neural net was configured to model the physical structures of real animal brains , since we have a good understanding these days of that . The brain was allowed to consume information from a selection of internet data and guess what ? It really likes cats . No , I 'm not kidding . --- There are plenty more examples and different technologies . The basic algorithm may be static but it may also give rise to astounding complexity . Evolution itself is principally simple and our DNA sequences , when decoded , fill DVDs . We are not driven by simple algorithms of nature , but the astounding complexity ( data , DNA ) that comes from it . Computers are already doing this on a much smaller scale , but there 's no reason a computer ca n't achieve similar complexity . --- Briefly , you have to argue what you consider consciousness and self awareness even is . Does a single sell organism have consciousness ? I say a Furby has consciousness . For example , it is self aware when it is upside down , and it does n't like that . At a very low , primitive level , like that of a single celled organism , it is conscious .