People had very high expectations and they were n't met . Partially it was nostalgia . A lot of Star Wars fans were kids when the first movies were released , but they were adults when the prequels were released . Their life experiences colored how they saw the films . Partially it was because the films specifically targeted a younger audience . Lucas made a shift in approach between Empire and Jedi that carried through to the prequels . The prequels had a more juvenile , kid - friendly environment with lots and lots of stuff added so they could make toys . The movies were as much marketing platforms as stories , and that affected how people viewed them . Partially it was because the premise of the prequels was a tough sell . Everyone already knows how the story ends . So it is hard to build up dramatic tension - you know that Ben and Anakin will escape from any situation they find themselves in . Anakin will become Darth Vader by getting chopped up and burned alive after being turned to the Dark Side . Palpatine is evil and becomes the Emperor , etc . Partially it was because Lucas made horrifically bad choices and apparently nobody could convince him otherwise . Midiclorians , for example . Or referring to Anakin as " Annie " . Jar Jar failed as a character but there was n't any real reason to think he 'd be any less successful than C-3PO . My kid , for example , loved Jar Jar . But she was not Lucas ' adult audience . ( Plus Jar Jar is inherently racist despite what Lucas continues to protest . ) Finally , and most fatally , the prequels just were n't good stories . There are great moments in all 3 but none of them are strong throughout . It 's hard to tell from a script of a movie will gel and Lucas certainly had the track record of being able to make compelling movies . I think everyone was surprised by how not good they were . I read the script for Episode I before it was made , and I thought it had huge problems but would n't have bet against Lucas . He proved to be a mere mortal after all . ( Source : I was a Star Wars licensee in the Episode I era at Wizards of the Coast )