Yes and no . Acne comedones are infections , and the pus is bacteria plus dead white cells trying to fight off the bacteria . Most acne treatments are designed to help remove dead skin cells from covering the pores that fill with bacteria so the infections in the pores can drain without making whiteheads . * but few acne treatments actually do anything about the bacteria ! * Killing off the bacteria on your face so it does n't cause an infection and make a zit , is something you can do yourself , and attacks acne at its root cause .. the bacteria on your face that gets into your pores and causes a pus - laden pocket of * infection . * Get yourself a container of sulphur powder , also called Flowers or flour of sulphur . It 's sold on amazon , and its cheap . It 's not patented . And it kills bacteria ... BEFORE we had antibiotics , infections were treated with sulfa drugs , up through the Korean war . Sulphur - based drugs are still used for people who ca n't take antibiotics or in containing antibiotic - resistant bacterias . Mix 1 teaspoon of sulphur powder with 1 cup of rubbing alcohol in a glass or plastic container . ( sulphur wo n't dissolve in water , but it suspends in rubbing alcohol . ) Shake well . Twice a day , AFTER you have washed your face , shake up your sulphur solution and saturate a cotton ball with it . Using -firm- strokes , stroke the solution over your face . Make your strokes firm to help dig the bacteria out of your pores and get the sulphur into your pores . Leave it on . When it dries , if you have a little visible yellow dust , just brush it off with your fingertips . Bacteria * can not live * in the presence of sulphur . As long as you have a light coating of sulphur on your face ( light enough it ca n't be seen ) , bacteria will not be able to survive on your face or in your pores and since its not there , it will not multiply into infections . And the infections are zits . Therefore , no zits . This wo n't make acne treatment companies any money . There is no patent on sulphur , its a common mineral . But it solves the problem . Give yourself a month of using it for any old discolorations to fade .