I 'm answering from what I can remember of high school biology , so please keep in mind that there will likely be inaccuracies in my response . TL;DR Versions : DNA is the set of instructions that tells your cells what to do . A gene is a specific instruction encoded in your DNA . Cells are the smallest thing that can be considered living . Every living creature is made of them , and every cell must have a copy of the DNA of the creature it is a part of . A chromosome is compacted DNA , a way to save space and organize DNA so it can be stored inside of a cell without taking up all of the available space and getting tangled up . Long versions : DNA is an extremely large molecule that serves as instructions for the various activities carried out inside a cell . It 's shaped like a very long and twisted ladder ( this shape is called a double helix ) . Each rung on the latter is made from two of four chemical bases ( also called nucleotides ): adenine ( A ) , guanine ( G ) , cytosine ( C ) , and thymine ( T ) . A pairs with T and G pairs with C ; in other words , a rung can be made of A and T or G and C , but not with A and G or C and T. Also , each chemical makes up one half of the rung ; you can have A on the left and T on the right , for example . This makes it so the DNA can be ' unzipped ' and split into two halves . The ability to be unzipped and the specific pairs the nucleotides have are what make it possible for your cells to decode the DNA . The instructions in DNA are stored in the pattern these bases follow . For example , if a series of five rungs is composed of the pairs A - T , G - C , C - G , T - A , T - A , their sequence can be described by AGCTT ( the pattern followed by one half of the strand ) . If this sequence caused some trait to show itself in an organism , such as by causing a person 's eyes to be green , it is called a gene . Genes have variable lengths . Some are a few thousand bases , but others can be millions long . A cell is the smallest building block of life . You are made of trillions of them . Each cell performs a certain function , which is dictated by the part of your DNA that particular cell decodes . For instance , red blood cells carry oxygen around your body . Groups of cells that perform a similar function form tissues . Muscle cells make muscle tissue . Again , DNA tells your cells how to work together so they can accomplish the collective task the tissue must fulfill . Tissues grouped together to perform a certain function make organs . Your heart is made of muscle tissue and connective tissue . Organisms are made from a collection of organs . Now , think about how much space your body takes up , and the fact that there are trillions of cells that compose you . That does n't leave much room for each cell , does it ? Each of these cells must store your DNA , and DNA is , as I mentioned earlier , a very large molecule . This is where chromosomes come in . A chromosome is essentially DNA in compact form . DNA compacting itself into a chromosome is similar to the way thread can be rolled up onto a spool . This makes the DNA take up much less space in your cells .