I think you 've got a lot of people explaining DNA and chromosomes , but I 'm not sure cells has been done clearly . A cell is the smallest unit of life ; it is called this because at its essence , a cell is a sack with things inside it that take in energy , use them to do things , and then expel the waste . There are living things that consist of nothing but single cells ( such as bacteria and yeast ) , then there are more complex things that function as a group of the exact same cells working together ( such as sea sponges ) , and at the most complex end , you have organisms like human which are collections of a huge number of different types of cells that all rely on each other in order to live . So , exactly what is a cell ? The simplest cells are prokaryotic cells ( like bacteria ) . They are sacks of lipid molecules ( similar to a fat molecule ) , with all of their required molecules ( DNA molecules , protein molecules , enzymes^t , energy molecules , etc . ) free floating inside of them . They take food directly through pores in the cell membrane , enzymes bump into the food and turn it into energy for the cell to use to repair itself , go find food , etc . More complex are the eukaryotic cells ( yeasts all the way to humans ) . These are the huge Ford factories to the little prokaryotic car shops you 've got in your garage . The same way an organism ( human ) has organs that do things inside , eukaryotic cells have * organelles * that different functions inside of them . For example , the nucleus packages up all the DNA , the mitochondria makes energy for the whole cell , etc . In a larger organism , these cells are specialists , and have other cells brining them any nutrients they need - for example , a muscle cell does n't bother keeping extra food molecules in storage because it counts on fat cells to always have a steady stream of sugar available to it in the blood stream . But still , even in more complex systems - a cell is something that takes in nutrients , uses it to make energy , and uses that energy to do a job . ^t enzymes are protein molecules that do things because of their shape / chemistry . This is akin to a car rolling downhill because it 's wheels are round and the axel keeps them upright and pointing in the same direction .