The U.S. ( and allies ) overthrew Iraq in the 2nd Gulf War and established a democratic state . Unfortunately that state is n't doing such a great job , in most part because large parts of it do n't want to be part of Iraq , this goes back to WWI . In short the Kurds in the north have their act together and want to be an independent country but the rest of the world wo nt support it because it will cause wars in Turkey and Iran ( with their Kurdish population rebelling to be part of Kurdistan ) . Kurdistan has oil and hence money but its supposed to be funneled through the Iraqi government which pisses the Kurds off . A lot of the returns do n't make it back to them lost in other parts of Iraqi . The Sunni 's in the middle feel they are an oppressed minority will never have a fair shake at things , they have no real oil revenues , just lots of territory with a sparse population . The Shiite 's control the southern part of the country and the government . Syria was ruled by the Assad family as dictators for over 40 years . The family has supported group many consider terrorists or at least extremist Islamic factions . They have been accused of training those radicals and sending them into Iraq when the U.S. was occupying it . They have a long standing grudge with Israel who has occupied Syrian territory since the 60s . Much of that grudge has been fought out inside Lebanon with both sides invading it several times . When revolutions spread across the Middle East in 2011 one started in Syria too . Unlike the others that quickly overthrew the regime ( Libya , Egypt ) the Syrian Civil War has dragged on . Assad ca n't seem to put it down and the rebels ca n't seem to overthrow him . Chemical weapons have been used , possibly by both sides but deals were made by 3rd parties to remove those weapons from the country . As the war has progressed several factions have arisen to fight the Syrian Government . Kurds , radical Islamics ( ISIS for one ) , a collection of moderate factions , and the government have become the dominate factions in the war . Outside aid to any of the factions has been limited . The West does n't want to help the Kurds for political reasons and they are afraid to help the moderates in case they turn radical . So the largest factions are the Government and ISIS . The Government controls the east and ISIS the west of the country . There have been signs that the Government actually helps ISIS when it is fighting the other two factions . ISIS is a radical Islamic factions preaching their own brand of Islam . In short it boils down to " if you do not believe the same as we do you are not Islamic " . They started off as a splinter group of Al - Queda who disavowed them as too radical ( when guys who run airplanes into building say you are too extreme there is a problem ) . ISIS has basically called for the destruction of anyone not Islamic ( their definition of Islamic ) in the area . Their stated goal is to establish a religious government over the areas of the Middle East that include Syria , Lebanon , Iraq , Israel , Palestine and possibly more . In recent days they have allowed groups from other places to come under their umbrella as " provinces " . A radical movement in Egypt has joined them as the province of Sinai ( even though that group does not control the Sinai yet ) . As part of its plan ISIS is not only fighting Syrian factions but has taken over large a parts of Iraq . I doing so they have come into conflict with a number of minorities that are either not Islamic or not their brand of Islam , as well as the Kurds and the Iraqi government . They have treated them exactly as they said they would , death being a major option . The Iraqi government forces have done badly despite the billions of dollars the U.S. spent on them in resiting ISIS . The Kurds have done much better but are crippled because no one will help them directly and the Iraqi government is afraid that if they get the military aid they need they will use it to declare independence at a later date . Nominally Iraq is a U.S. ally and the U.S. has gone in to support it against ISIS but with reservations since the U.S. public does n't want to be in another war in the Middle East . The U.S. is leery about supporting moderates in Syria in case we make a mistake , they ca n't support the Kurds directly without pissing off the Iraqi government and they ca n't use their own troops because the American public is against it . There is a whole lot more but not for EL5 .