Imagine you are in class and your teacher asks you to write all of the capital letters of the alphabet four times - A A A A B B B B C C C C .... You know that you 'll have to write a little more than 100 letters on the page . You can guess how long it takes you to write a single letter , but writing can sometimes be faster or slower . This is true for computers too . A loading bar in computers is basically the same as the teacher asking you every second , " JPK , how much time do you still need to finish writing your letters ? " If you took 2 seconds to write the first letter , and you need to write 100 , you could guess that you need 198 seconds to finish . But if it took you 3 seconds for the letter B ( curves ! ) or 1 second for the letter C ( do n't need to lift the pencil ! ) then your guesses will be a little bit wrong every time . Now what happens if you drop your pencil ? ( In this analogy , after flushing data to disk , the computer switched tasks to take care of something of higher priority , like opening the reddit home page in your browser ) Suddenly your time changes a little bit more because you have to take time to pick up your pencil ( task switch ) , or to sharpen your pencil ( file seeking ) , or to erase a mistake ( error checking ) , or to write your name on the assignment ( file system journaling ) or to put a page down and get a new page ( storing in cache or page memory ) . It was very easy to guess when you only had to think about how fast you wrote the first letter .... but clearly it is n't enough information to figure out the entire time remaining . ---- As far as the last 1 % goes , this is kind of like doing your entire assignment first before you write your name and date and class and give your pages to the teacher . The loading bar usually estimates time remaining based on the task it represents , since it can actually be measured by looking at past progress . That last percent often includes tasks that can not be measured . For example , when you download files , they are usually downloaded to a temp directory first , then moved to the real destination ( or they are downloaded at the real directory but with a fake extension , like myfile.jpg.part ; then the file is renamed to myfile.jpg when the download is complete ) .