Homeopathy is one of several forms of alternative medicine , this means that you can use homeopathic remedies instead of traditional medicine remedies . The former uses " medicaments " ( based on the [ * miasma theory * ] ( URL_0 ) and [ * water memory * ] ( URL_1 ) ) , I wo n't talk about that theory here . The remedies are often prepared by a " homeopathic dilution " . In this process the substance that homeopaths think will cure a disease is diluted with water or alcohol . Imagine you have , lets say , some vegetal dye ; you add 1 mL in 1 L of total solution , so , this stock solution has 0.001 % of dye . According to water memory , water has the capability to retain the qualities of the substance previously diluted in it , so , if you dilute this stock solution to one tenth , you will have 0.0001 % dye in your solution ( 1 mL in 10 L ) but the water will still have the qualities of the first solution . With this reasoning , if you re - dilute the second solution to one - tenth , you will have a solution with 0.00001 % dye ( 1 mL in 100 L ) and the same qualities of the stock solution . Going on with this reasoning , you can have a 0.00000001 % dye solution ( 1 mL in 1 000 000 L ) that will have the same qualities as the stock solution . Lets take this example to reality . Dilute 1 drop of dye in a glass of water . The water will turn into the colour of the dye . Take a drop of this solution and dilute in another glass of water . The water may be slightly dyed , but not too much . Take a drop of this solution and dilute in another glass of water . In this point you will certainly do n't see any dye at all . Take a drop of this solution and dilute in another glass of water . Would you drink this glass of water ? Would you be afraid to get your guts dyed ? Repeat the latter . How about now ? Is this solution still dyed ? Certainly , no . The big deal with homeopathic medicines is that they have the same results as placebos in clinical studies . That is , you compare a liquid homeopathic medicine vs. distilled water . If , statistically , the number of people cured with the homeopathic medicine are about the same as the number of people cured with the distilled water , homeopathic medicine does n't work . To add another layer of comparison , use a traditional medicament as well ; if this medicine outperforms the placebo it means it is really working as a medicine . To accomplish this results , you need a double blind administration of medicines ( neither the person giving the medicine and the person receiving it know which one of the three they are receiving , they only know they are giving / receiving a medicine for the disease ) . I did my best to give a not - too - opinionated answer but , as you may have noticed , homeopathy is a total scam based on pseudoscience . The fundamentals in which it is standing completely neglect our knowledge of very basic chemistry .