The reason is because Pacquios ' promoter , Bob Arum used to promote Floyd until Floyd decided to buy himself out of his contract about eight years ago . It was a very very bad split with a lot of bad blood on both sides that still exists to this day . The fight almost happened in 2010 , there are even contracts that Pacquiao 's team had drawn up and sent to Mayweather floating around on the internet somewhere , but ultimately they could n't agree on the topic of drug testing , mostly on how many days out from the fight blood would be drawn , because Pacquiao felt in his loss to Erik Morales in 2005 that having blood drawn a couple days before the fight weakened him . More recently , the main reason for the fight not happening is Floyd wanting to keep his undefeated record , combined with the fact that he 's guaranteed ~30 million , plus PPV upside for every fight . So yes he can fight Manny and make 75 million , but in his mind why take on a fight he has probably a 45 % chance of losing , when he can take fights for 40 million or so against opponents he knows he has a 90 % chance of beating , like a Marcos Maidana . Floyd is already going to make so much $ that he does n't want to risk losing to a guy as skilled and powerful as Pacquiao . If I had to say , I 'd say most of the blame falls on Floyd for the fight not happening . Yes , Manny 's side is at fault too , but I think history will look back and say it was mostly Floyd 's fault . Hopefully , now that Floyd is in the final year of his CBS / Showtime contract , he 'll step up and fight Manny because his contract and the guaranteed $ is up soon anyway , and he might as well try and cash in before he gets too old . There 's also a not that well known story about when Michael Koncz , one of Pacquiao 's advisers , flew to the Mayweather house in Vegas . During this time , Manny and Floyd actually spoke to each other on the phone , trying to come to some sort of agreement . Koncz said that Floyd , after speaking to Manny , said , what happens if i lose ? Koncz told him , we 'll have a rematch and you 'll make even more $ , which is true , what boxing / casual fan would nt want to see a rematch assuming it was an entertaining fight ? Floyd knows he can lose , and honestly that 's part of what has made him such a great fighter , his matchmaking and opponent selection in relation to maximizing $ is about as good as its ever gotten since Joe Louis back in the 1930 's and 40 's . As a side note , it also interest me that Manny and Floyd have never met in person . it 'd be weird in any other sport for the two best athletes in that sport to have never met , but apparently they have n't . I 'm sure eventually they 'll bump into each other , and that should be pretty interesting , as Pacquiao is said to really hate Floyd .