Alright , so .. Brad and Janet are a couple wholesome , apple pie , square American kids who recently got engaged . While driving around one night , they get a flat tire . Off in the distance , they see some lights in a castle and decide to go there to use the telephone to call for help with their car . There they meet Dr. Frank N. Furter , Riff Raff , his ( implied incestuous ) sister Magenta , and Columbia , their groupie in the middle of a celebration with a bunch of other weirdos . Frank says he found the secret to life itself , unveils his proof in the form of Rocky to those assembled , and then goes on a rampage as Eddie ( Frank and Columbia 's former lover ) crashes the party by bursting out of the freezer . The background partygoers run away as the doctor catches and kills Eddie . All that s left are our main characters now . Brad and Janet get shown to seperate rooms and Frank disguises himself to seduce Janet and Brad . Janet is creeped out by this and runs away , finding Rocky who had been hiding from the abusive Riff Raff . Janet sees Frank in bed with Brad , feels emotional , then gets intimate with Rocky as Magenta and Columbia watch them from a monitor . A bit later , Frank finds out Rocky went missing and goes to the lab with Brad and Riff Raff in tow . There they learn of an intruder into the castle : Dr. Scott , who is Brad and Janet 's old highschool science teacher . They find Janet and Rocky together there also , much to Janets embarrassment , Brad 's dumbfoundedness , and Frank 's anger . Dr. Scott says he 's looking for his nephew Eddie , Frank accuses him of looking for UFO 's under order of the government , and accuses Brad and Janet of being in on the scheme because of their relationship with Dr. Scott . Tension runs high but Magenta interrupts by crashing a gong and announcing dinner . Everyone shares an awkward and tense meal , which they find out to their horror has been prepared from the mutilated and dismembered carcass of Eddie . Janet freaks out and runs to Rocky for comfort , to the chagrin of Brad and anger of Frank who slaps Janet around which just makes Janet wail more and go running off . Everyone but Riff Raff and Magenta follow and end up in the lab , where Frank shoots them with a ray gun that turns them all into statues . Frank dresses up the statues , un - statues them , and forces everyone to perform a hedonistic , worshippy stage show to Frank 's pleasure . Riff Raff and Magenta interrupt , announce they and Frank are actually ALIENS from the planet Transsexual ( in the galaxy Transylvania ) , and that they re taking over and returning there . Frank gets nostalgic about home and returning , Riff Raff and Magenta give him the bad news that he is nt coming . The pair kill Frank , Rocky , and Columbia then release Brad , Janet , and Dr. Scott before zooming off in the castle back to their homeworld . The earthlings are still in their garters and fishnets and are pretty confused and horrified by the whole experience . Unbeknownst to them , Brad and Janet know how to reverse things .. Sadly , The Narrator who s been narrating everything does nt explain to the survivors that everything could be remedied via a simple enough dance . Its just a jump to the left ..