Different species are able to synthesize different nutrients themselves through cellular processes . Nutrients include carbohydrates , fats , proteins ( or their building blocks , amino acids ) , and vitamins . This means instead of the body having to " eat " the protein containing a particular amino acid , the cell itself can make that amnio acid . This of course requires energy and work by the cell . Conversely , " a nutrient is said to be " essential " if it must be obtained from an external source , either because the organism can not synthesize it or produces insufficient quantities " . So there are two kinds of nutrients , those that we can make through our own cellular processes , and those we must obtain through our diet . [ Proteins ] ( URL_2 ) are made up of different [ amnio acids ] ( URL_3 ) . A good analogy is that a protein is like a train , and the individual cars are amnio - acids . Different combinations of railcars , in different orders give different kinds of trains . In the same way , different amnio - acids , in different combinations give different kinds of proteins . Digestion , be it in animals or humans , results in the breakdown proteins into their amnio acid components . The intestine absorbs the individual amnio acids and the body ships these amnio acids to the cells . Cellular processes rearrange the amnio acids in new ways to make new proteins that are used by the animal or human for various bodily functions . So think of the cell as the railyard where new trains ( proteins ) are made but reassembling the cars ( amnio - acids ) into new and different combinations . " Proteins perform a vast array of functions within living organisms , including catalyzing metabolic reactions , replicating DNA , responding to stimuli , and transporting molecules from one location to another . " There are [ nine essential amino acids ] ( URL_1 ) that humans must consume in their diet because our cells can not make them through cellular processes . The rest we can make ourselves in our cells . This means that our diet must meet these minimum essential amnio acids requirements in order for us to survive . We can not make the nine , we must consume the nine . The nine are found in all kinds of foods , from plants to meat which is why humans can have such a wide variety of diets ( e.g. vegetarian , vegan , allergen - accomidating ) and still function normally . However , other animals have different essential nutritional requirements . For example , [ cats , unlike humans , can not synthesize the amino acid taurine so it must be added to their diet ] ( URL_0 ) . Some species are able to synthesize Vitamin C and do not need to consume it in their diet ( e.g. mice ) , whereas humans can not synthesize Vitamin C and thus are required to consume it in our diet . These differences in essential nutrient intake creates different dietary requirements for different species and results in different types of foods being consumed preferentially by different species . This is why a horse is able to survive and thrive just on plant material , whereas we are required to consume a more varied diet . They obtain all their unique essential nutrients from their herbivore diet . So other species have different combinations of essential nutrients in order to sustain a balanced and healthy diet . This makes perfect sense , if all species had the exact same requirements there would be a lot of competition for the same food resources . By diversifying what is essential to consume , there is less competition . Remember that it is costly for the body to produce its own nutrients through cellular processes . It is much easier to just consume an amnio acid than produce it . Thus , if a particular amino acid or nutrient is abundant and easily available in a species environment it makes more sense for natural selection to select against the cell 's producing that nutrient , and for the individual to simply consume it . For example , most primates - including humans - do not synthesize vitamin C. This makes perfect sense since vitamin C is easily acquired through our collective diets by consuming fruit . Fruit is abundant resource in most primate 's environments thus vitamin C would not be hard to acquire . So each species is balancing what they need to eat , and what they can produce themselves , along with what is available to them in their environment .