Communism can be thought of as conscientious cooperation between members of a society . In order for any individual to survive , he relies on others . For example , you can build a house and farm much more easily when you have another person helping . Communism relies on the individuals ' realization that we depend on each other , and thus have common interests that we have to work toward . If I raise chickens and you grow grain , we need to exchange our goods to each have a healthy diet . In essence , we cooperatively " own " the goods we create and we share them . So long as you and I realize that we 're better off when we cooperate , we both are healthy ( and have homes , and all the other goods that come from being a conscientious producer of goods and services ) . However . This spirit of community can be hurt by the lures of competition . If I withhold some of my goods , or try to get as much from you as I can for as little labor as I can put it ( i.e. laziness ) , then the system of cooperation starts to fail . If Bob , Susan , and I help you build your house , and then you give us none of your grain in return , we no longer have a healthy diet . In order for the system to work , you must have people realize that it only works when they believe in the system and help support the ethos through work . Some people believe communism is " so bad " because within such a system you ca n't want to have the biggest house , or the fanciest car , and so on . Also , some infamous societal failures in history are often associated with communism , even though they were n't really communist countries . So sometimes when people hear " communism " they think of those terrible events in history . For a five year old , you could also think of it like this : We drive cars , and we have lots of rules for car drivers like stopping at a stop sign . It would probably be a good idea to stop at intersections , even if we did n't have stop signs or laws regulating them , as it would make driving safer for everyone . We would be cooperating for the good of everyone . But some people break those driving rules , out of their own personal interest , and so we need ( numerous ) laws ( i.e. external forces , not internal conscientousness ) to guide our behavior . And similarly , communism is a society that thrives on understanding and cooperation , and capitalism exists based on self - interested compeition based on external forces . Communism is n't a bad idea . People are bad !