Piracy is n't ok , but it is a consequence of marketing and pricing . There is no justifying it , but there is some explanation of it . With saturation advertising , there 's literally almost no direction I can look , right now , where I 'm sitting , and not see an advertisement for digital media . The whole point is the advertisers want you to feel that you want this product and you want it * now * , in order to induce a purchase . And they 're successful , at large , too successful , actually . The value of media is inflated , music and video is n't actually worth what they 're charging , as evidenced by the rampant piracy . The working class has n't had a pay raise in 22 years and has less buying power now than they did in the 1980s , cost of living increases , and the price of media has always been ~$15 for an album . And you get less today than ever . You used to get a cover , an insert , and art , bundled with the album . Today , you get an mp3 download . It costs fractions of a penny to digitize the final product and distribute it on the internet , you 'd think that would drop the price . It costs $ 0.017 to produce a CD , just as a point of reference , and digital distribution is orders of magnitude cheaper . So here you have a market who wants your product and wants it now , and ca n't or wo n't afford it . I 'm not saying it 's ok , but this is the catalyst that allows people to justify it . The way the industry works is an artist is contracted to produce content for the publisher , they do n't own their own songs , and they 're literally lucky if they get any money , at all , from the sale of their media . Artists make money by performing , and even then , they 're responsible for the cost of the production , which cuts into their profits . So publishers are seen as big , bad , rich , faceless corporations - profiteering gluttons who do n't need any more money for something they own but they did n't make , so fuck em ' , right ? The world is such a big place and so many people do buy the album that they wo n't even notice I stole a copy ... Or so the mindset goes . There are scenarios where people do pay , when they feel the price is fair and when they feel the profits are distributed to those whom they see entitled .