* * 401 K * * - The money you put into it now you get to deduct from your taxes now ( ie you do n't count that money as income and pay no taxes on it ) . When you retire , the money you take from your 401 K account is then taxed as if it were income . It is pretty much the same as a Traditional IRA , only the 401 K is a system designed for employers to use to automatically deduct from employee 's paychecks ( if they want ) , and also the employer can choose to contribute additional money ( as an added employment benefit ) . A Traditional IRA is handled by the individual ( you have to keep track of your own contributions for tax purposes ) , but otherwise works the same way . * * Roth * * * * IRA * * - You do your taxes like normal , and with money you have left over you put into your Roth IRA . Then , when you retire , since you already paid taxes on the money you put in , you get it back tax free . * * Plus * * all the interest that money gained while invested in the account is * also * tax - free . This is an individually controlled account ( like a Traditional IRA ) , so you have to keep track of it . There is now such a thing as a Roth 401 K that some businesses offer , which is basically the same thing as the Roth IRA , but managed through your employer like a regular 401K. There is a yearly limit on how much you can contribute to your Roth IRA , which varies depending on your age and marital situation . The logic behind the 401 K ( and Traditional IRA ) being a better deal is that you are making X dollars now , and so you 'll save a chunk of money in income taxes if you invest that money . When you retire , you 'll be making much less ( living off interest and investments ) , so the percentage you 'll pay in income taxes will be lower . Say you have an extra $ 100 . If you just take that money now , you 'll pay taxes ( say 25 % ) and only actually keep $ 75 . If instead you invest it in a 401 K , the full $ 100 goes in . When you retire , you 'll be making less ( presumably ) , so theoretically ( assuming taxes have n't changed too much by then ) your net taxes will be less ( say 15 % ) . If the interest earned averaged 3 % over 30 years , then at the end your initial $ 100 investment would be worth ~$243 , on which you 'd pay taxes for ( at 15 % ) , so you 'd wind up with $ 206.55 . The logic behind the Roth IRA ( and Roth 401 K ) is that while you pay your normal taxes on that initial income , all interest that income generates for you will ultimately be tax free . So if you take that same $ 100 , pay the 25 % in taxes , and invest the remaining $ 75 in a Roth , all the accumulated interest on that $ 75 you 'll get to collect in retirement without paying a dime in taxes on it . If the average interest earned was 3 % , and that initial investment of $ 75 was left in there for 30 years , at the end it would be worth ~$182 , none of which you 'd pay taxes on . The value of one over the other depends on many factors , like your earning potential , the amount of time between now and retirement , and what tax rates are now and what they 'll be in the future . In general , if you are closer to retirement , the 401 K is the better deal . If you are a long ways away from retirement ( still in your 20s or early 30s ) and expect to be making good money all your life , the Roth may wind up being a better deal . If your company will match some of your contributions into a retirement , that will trump all other options , since that 's basically free money they 're willing to give you . The way I do it , as I make better - than - average income and am in my early 30s ( far from retirement ) , in order of importance ( based on how much I feel I have free to save for retirement ): 1 . Put as much into my 401 K as my company is willing to match ( to grab all the free money I can ) . 1 . Max out my Roth IRA ( currently $ 5000 / yr for me ) . 1 . Add more to 401 K or other individual investment plans . Also , keep in mind that while a 401 K plan is tied to your current employer , if you ever leave them , you can choose to roll that money over tax - free into either a Traditional IRA or another 401 K plan at your new employer 's . And I 'm not sure , but I believe a Roth 401 K can also be rolled tax - free into a regular Roth IRA account . ( Roth 401 K plans are relatively new and I have yet to work at company which has offered them . )