Well you see Timmy , an IRA and a 401k are a lot alike - they both let you save up your money so you can spend it later . The IRA lets you save a little ( ~$5000 ) , but the 401k lets you save a lot ( ~$16000 ) ! When you get a job of your own , you 'll be able to save with a 401k too ( 401k is made available by the company you work for , IRA can be done separately if you are unemployed / entrepreneur / contractor ) Now , both the IRA and the 401k come in two different " flavors " - that 's " Traditional " and " Roth " . Think of it like going out to dinner , Timmy . " Roth " is like McDonalds - when you order , they ask for your money first , and give you your food second ( with Roth , the contributions to your savings account are taxed when you put them in , but grow off interest and are not taxed when they are pulled out many years later ) . " Traditional " is like a restaurant - you get your food first , but you have to pay before you leave ( with Traditional , the contributions to your savings account are not taxed when you put them in , but are taxed when you take them out , as if you had earned that much extra money that year ) . Watch out though , the bill at restaurants can be quite high ! ( many people are in a higher tax - bracket when they retire , meaning they have to pay higher taxes on their money when they pull it out than they would 've when they earned it . Any interest that grows under the Traditional account will also be taxed when taken out , so the longer you have an account the more you 'll have to pay out ) Timmy , the bottom line is this . If you ever work for a company that offers a 401k plan , you should take it over an IRA . If you have extra spending money when you 're still young , you should be smart and save it in a Roth 401k . If you 're barely scraping by , but still want to save for you or your family 's future , you should save with a Traditional 401k plan . And Timmy , do n't doze off when I 'm talking to you . This is important . You are only five .