A revolution started in Tunisia over their corrupt president ( which got influenced by wikileaks showing how corrupt he was ) . Despite being corrupt , the president of Tunisia was backed by the US and Europe as he was anti - terrorist . Revolutions spread in other Arab nations as they had similar situations . Only the Egyptian one was successful ( to a certain extent ) . A revolution also spread to Libya . However , Libya was in a different situation as Gaddafi was traditionally not a close ally to the west . In 1969 , Gaddafi lead the Libyan army to overthrow the King who was unpopular as oil wealth was badly shared in the region . Now it is important to understand that Gaddafi is a very STRANGE man . He was an uneducated soldier who basically became leader of a very oil rich nation . Gaddafi had a bizarre ideology which mixed Arab nationalism , " Islamic " socialism , and pan africanism . Under Gaddafi , Libyans had the highest standard of living in Africa ( due to the oil wealth ) . However Gaddafi had many enemies as he used the countries money to support many dodgy organizations of causes he supported ( mainly anti Israel and US ) . Terrorist attacks occurred of organizations he was funding ( us soldiers in Germany , a plane crash over Scotland ) . In the past 5 - 10 years however , he apologized for the attacks and western governments started cozying up to him to get huge contracts with the massive oil reserves in Libya * * NOW BACK TO THE PRESENT * * Libya , like many African countries , is divided amongst tribes that Europeans did not take into account when they did their borders during the colonial era . A lot of people all over the country do n't like him because he is autocratic and quite frankly a little bit deranged . However he is even more disliked in the East of the country ( Benghazi ) area as the people there ( who are of an other tribe than Gaddafi ) feel like they do not share equally in the large oil wealth of the country . That 's why the revolution was successful in the east but not in the west . * * NATO INTERVENTION * * People question if NATO intervention is just another example of western imperialism . But NATO had some legitimate reasons to intervene . 1 Gaddafi is pretty crazy and is capable of bombing his own people 2 Libya have few friends ( apart from a few poor African countries they support and Venezuela who use the enemy of my enemy is my friend motto ) which means NATO have less to fear than if they invaded , say , Syria to help kick out a dictator 3 Libya is oil rich . Problem is , the eastern Libyan rebels are not well enough trained to defeat Gaddafi and nato 's intervention is limited to air strikes . So we are kind of in a stalemate and now a negotiated diplomatic agreement ( where Gaddafi is no longer leader but remains in Libya and his party keeps some power ) is seeming more and more likely . EDIT : I also realy recommend the BBC website which give clear analyses of the conflict- URL_1 A realy good BBC outline of Gaddafi- URL_0 Explains the Libyan conflict since the beginning of the revolution- URL_2