Banks are essentially big pools of money . The day to day banking you use personally ( checking , savings , debit cards , etc ) is not the reason they exist . That 's an extra service they do to make just a little more money than they would otherwise . [ Big banking ] ( URL_1 ) is divided into 3 types : 1 . A [ Central Bank ] ( URL_2 ) " circulates money on behalf of a government and acts as its monetary authority by implementing monetary policy , which regulates the money supply " . That 's the government bank that prints the money . 2 . A [ Commercial Bank ] ( URL_4 ) " accepts deposits and pools those funds to provide credit , either directly by lending , or indirectly by investing through the capital markets . Within the global financial markets , these institutions connect market participants with capital deficits ( borrowers ) to market participants with capital surpluses ( investors and lenders ) by transferring funds from those parties who have surplus funds to invest ( financial assets ) to those parties who borrow funds to invest in real assets " . Later , I 'll assume this is the one you 're asking about . 3 . A [ savings bank ] ( URL_3 ) " is similar to a savings and loan association ( S & L ) . They can either be stockholder owned or mutually owned , in which case they are permitted to only borrow from members of the financial cooperative . The asset structure of savings banks and savings and loan associations is similar , with residential mortgage loans providing the principal assets of the institution 's portfolio " . A bank that loans money to other banks ( usually commercial banks ) . Basically , it 's not one bank that 's doing everything in the economy , different types all work together . What they have in common is that money goes out , just to different people , and how / why money goes in . The primary business of banking is not the small transactions like you using a debit card to pay for groceries or depositing a paycheck . The big money is in loans , whether they 're as small as one to buy a used car or as large as the [ $ 9 trillion the Federal Reserve made to US banks ] ( URL_0 ) . Smaller loans tend to be packaged up into blocks of debt and traded around between banks . Say Bank 1 ( a commercial bank ) borrowed X money from Bank 2 ( a savings bank ) at Y% interest . To pay it back , Bank 1 loans out enough money to cover that entire debt , then paid it to Bank 2 by literally giving them a package of debt . The people who borrowed from Bank 1 do n't know it , but all their payments essentially get funneled to Bank 2 . Bank 1 and Bank 2 are essentially betting on how much of the debt will be repaid or end up being worth more than expected . This is also why credit ratings are so important . If you have a bad credit rating ( as a person ) , your debt ca n't be packaged up and used to pay a savings bank so easily . if you 're a country , bad credit means international banks or other country 's banks do n't want to loan to you because you probably wo n't pay it back . So why is it necessary ? Debt is now how everything works . If you ca n't borrow , it 's harder to make big purchases , so things that are expensive stop selling except to the few rich people / groups there are . Big banks make even the most absurdly expensive loans possible ( like the previously mentioned $ 9 trillion in loans ) , so as long as people pay back their debts , it all continues to work .