First off , scoring : Touchdown ( " TD " ): 6 pts . A team brings the football under control into the opponent 's end zone . Point - after attempt ( " PAT " ): 1 pt . Immediately following a TD , a team has the option to kick ( in the NFL ) an easy field goal through the posts . The ball starts at the opponent 2 yd line . 2 - point Conversion : 2 pts . Another option for the offense after scoring a TD . The offense must bring the ball under control into the opponent 's endzone , much like a touchdown . This also starts at the 2 yd line . Rarer than a PAT , as it is riskier . Field goal ( " FG " ): 3 pts . Similar to a PAT , but can be executed at any time by the offense . Safety : 2 pts . A ballcarrier is downed in his own endzone . The scoring team receives the kickoff afterwards - in all other scoring the scored - on team receives . These are very rare . There is also a maneuver called a dropkick but it has n't been executed successfully in nearly 70 years since being marginalized by the introduction of the FG . Gameplay : 4 quarters of 15:00 each . The clock runs except if on a previous down a player steps out of bounds , a pass is incompleted , a timeout is taken , the ball is spiked , or a penalty occurs . Setup : Two sides of 11 line up against eachother on a " line of scrimmage " determined generally by the last point of forward progress by the offense . The ball must be placed between two " hashmarks " each several yards inwards from their respective sidelines . This often results in more open play to one side of the ball . Offense : The team playing offense has 4 attempts or " downs " to move the ball at least ten yards ( or score ) from its initial placement on the first down . They may move the ball primarily by running or passing it . Forward passes must be thrown from behind the line of scrimmage . Defense : The defense must stop the forward progress of the offense by tackling ballcarrying players or legally interfering with passing . Turnovers : If the offense fails to attain a first down , the defense receives the ball . This often results in a punt by the offense on 4th down ( if they are out of range of a field goal ) in order to gain favorable field position . If a pass is caught by a defender , this is an interception . If a ballcarrier loses control of the football before he is legally " downed " he " fumbles " and either team may recover . The second two types of turnovers can swing the momentum of a game wildly .