1914 : The Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria - Hungary goes to the nearby country of Serbia to check out what 's going on . Everybody 's cool , then BAM ! Serbian nationalist Gavrilo Princip pops a cap in his ass . Austria - Hungary does n't like this very much , as you can imagine . Germany advises Austria - Hungary to order Serbia to pay damages . After a while , Austria - Hungary comes up with a ridiculously complicated list of things for Serbia 's punishment . Serbia refuses , and Austria - Hungary declares war . Germany joins up with Austria - Hungary , Russia backs up Serbia , and the war begins on the Eastern Front . Germany planned to attack Russia , but had to go through Belgium to do it . This angered France ( because it was allied with Belgium ) and Great Britain , and soon Britain had declared war on Germany . Another reason that Britain joined was that Britain had a number of colonies in faraway countries generating revenue , and was worried that if Germany beat France , they 'd lose their colonies . Turkey , Greece , Italy , and Romania also joined the party because of similar reasons : They felt that they had to protect their allies , that they might lose territory , or they just did n't like the other guys and needed an excuse to fight . Meanwhile , the USA was remaining neutral . " This is Europe 's war ! " they harrumphed , then went back to smoking indoors and denying women the vote . However , they sneakily supplied Great Britain with food and supplies . The Germans found out about this , and attacked the supply ship Lusitania . At the same time , they tried to bribe Mexico into fighting against the US . The British intercepted the bribe and notified the US , and it was the final straw . In 1917 , the United States entered World War 1 . The Germans knew they were pretty beat , but made a final push at the Allies ' weakest point before the Americans got there . They got some ground against the Allies , but then the Americans arrived and wiped the floor with the Central Powers . Which is good , because Russia was out of the game because the Russian citizens took an opportunity in 1917 to overthrow the government . Germany surrendered in 1918 , at 11:00 on November 11 . They signed the Treaty of Versailles , but it was so harsh and they had to pay so much in reparations that Germany would eventually start the [ Second World War ] ( URL_0 ) . But that 's another story .