I just explained this is another post , but 's here 's a copy . The idea of representative democracy is that you vote 1 person per group of people to speak for you on national issues . It 's easier for one person to represent 10000 people 's opinions ( a republic ) than for everyone to vote on every single issue ( a democracy . ) In our case , it 's about 650 people representing 300+M Americans . But , history has been shown that elected representatives are not perfect bastions of infinite integrity . Like normal people , they have weaknesses and can be swayed and influenced by things other than altruism and persuasive argument . Some learned that if you give money to those representatives , you can get them to vote for things they may not have voted for otherwise . Thus , people with a lot of money may be able to influence the laws of the country and get laws passed that the people of the country may not really wanted or needed . So to prevent this conflict of interest , we passed laws that say you can not directly give money to a politician ( I.E. I ca n't give my congressman $ 1 M and say " I 'll pay you $ 1 M to vote no " ) . Instead , you can give money to their " campaign fund " , meaning the money they use to advertise themselves for reelection . Laws also state how that money can be used ( they ca n't use it to pay for their home or kids tuition , for example . ) The laws limited how much money a person or company could give to a candidate , so people created a " Political Action Committee " , a group that people could give more money to that was directed for similar purposes as a campaign fund . Laws also require that all donations in excess of a certain amount must be listed publicly so people can see who is funding a politician 's campaign . PAC 's can be used for single candidates , or for a group of candidates ( I.E. one candidate in a primary , or the R or D candidate in a national race . They can also represent multiple candidates , and the multiple candidates are allowed to give recommendations on how they 'd like the money spent . ) But , because some people / organizations wanted to put MORE money into campaigning , they created a SUPER - PAC . These campaigns are NOT authorized OFFICIALLY by the candidate or political party , but rather are organizations for trying to persuade the public on certain issues . Because these do not give their money to specific candidates or parties , and because the candidates nor their campaigns are not in control of these SUPER PACs , the laws that govern how much you give to these organizations is NOT limited . This is only possible because of the recent Supreme Court cases ( Citizen 's United ) . So now , you can still donate money to a Politician 's campaign if you want them to get elected . You can donate to their political action committee , but there are limitations on the amount . You can , however , donate unlimited amounts of money to a SUPER - PAC , and SUPER - PACs are not required to list who their donors are . Remember the Swiftboat ads ? They were required to say " Paid for by Swift Vote Veterans of America " at the end . Swiftboat was also required to list the donors to their ads to anyone that requests them . SuperPAC ads do n't have to list donors . They only have to list the name of the SuperPAC . The problem that people see is that they think that Super - Pac 's , while not OFFICIALLY under the control of a candidate , will actually work very closely with a candidate and their campaign , which essential side - steps the whole purpose of why we made laws to limit the amount of money people could donate in the first place . This debate falls under the subject of " campaign finance reform " . some people see Super - PAC 's as a bureaucratic veil that makes it easy to follow the letter of the law while entirely ignoring the spirit of the law . SO , what does this have to do with Stephen Colbert ? He is trying to show people how something like campaign finance reform - a subject which may seem boring and abstract to every day people - is really an important issue . He can now use the money he has collected to create signs , billboards , commercials for or against any political candidate without their permission - and he does n't have to say who paid for it . It is likely that Stephen may use the money to make actually commercials that make certain candidates look really foolish , or sarcastically make them look amazing - all of which will be apparent to the viewer . If enough people start to care about campaign finance reform , then it is more likely that new laws will be created to remedy some of the perceived problems . * * TL;DR * * Here 's a short metaphor : Steve wants to get elected , so Steve 's friends donate the max amount to his campaign . However , Steve still does n't have enough money to win against his opponent , Dave . So one of Steve 's friends , Chris , creates a SUPER - pac " * * F**riends * * o**f * * A**merica " . Now , Steve 's friends can donate more money toward running ads against Dave to help Steve get elected by donating money to " Friends of America " . Steve does n't " control " how FoA 's money gets spent- Chris does . But Chris and Steve are close buddies , and people suspect that Steve is still essentially telling Chris how to spend all the money in the SUPER - pac , even though the money is n't technically Steve 's . People suspect that Steve is actually controlling Friends of America and sidestepping the law , but because FoA does n't have to divulge who its donors are , there 's no way to see whether Steve is using the organization inappropriately . So Steve could be using FoA as an extension of his regular compaign funds , but there 's no way to prove it . Hence , one argument about SUPER - Pacs - that they are a legal technicality that completely bypasses all the rules about how money can be given to candidates , because they do nt have to disclose who paid for them - with money , gifts , or otherwise .