Since no one else has jumped in . Firstly , see the post on [ offshore bank accounts ] ( URL_0 ) it explains money laundering as well . So , I 'm a person who wants to make money in a less then legal fashion . Lets say I extort people with threats of burning down their house . I make a million dollars every quarter doing this . For me to spend this money on things I enjoy , it needs to be legitimate . Should the feds take a look at me , because I own a mansion with 12 swimming pools ( I like swimming in different temperatures ) I 'll need to account for where all my money is coming from . So , the money that I get from my extorting , is dirty . I ca n't spend it , or it could be traced back to my illegal activities . I need to make it appear as though I legitimately earned this money . This is where money laundering comes in . I run a legitimate carpet cleaning business . It has a store front , I have carpet cleaning equipment , maybe I even clean a carpet every once in a while . In reality , I rarely clean a carpet , but by the books , this is one of the most successful carpet cleaning business in town . When I get $ 500 from someone in exchange for not burning down their house , I enter this money as profit into the carpet cleaning business . I make appropriate receipts , and even create customers . I can take the money to the bank , and deposit it in the carpet cleaning account . This money , is arguably now " clean " . It is appear to be legitimately earned income . I can spend it , as the owner of the carpet cleaning business . Hell , I could even pay taxes on it ( I probably wo n't , see the off shore banking ) . This same thing is done many times , with a great number of businesses . Although a paper trail as simple as the one I laid out could be easily followed , when you do this many times , the trail is harder to follow . So maybe I have an organisation , some of the businesses are more legitimate then others . All of them move money around for me in exchange for a small fee . Some times you actually get something in return , like say , I do n't want to carry around my extorted money . So I go to the butcher and buy some bacon , I get a couple pounds of bacon and spend a few hundred dollars on it . This excess pays to pick up the butchers dry cleaning , a few hundred for a clean pressed shirt . The dry cleaner takes the excess to another business . ( Remember , all this does n't actually have to involve money moving , just the paperwork involved so that when inspected , it appear legitimate ) Lather , rinse , repeat . The money now appears to be legitimately earned income from my many businesses . I am an upstanding and successful business owner and citizen . Remember that they ended up getting Capone on tax fraud . His money was so well laundered they could n't prove any of it was illegally obtained . But they could prove that he was n't paying taxes on all of it .