If you said to your dad " i 'm hungry " he will probably go to the kitchen , get all the ingredients to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich , make the sandwich , cut off the crust ( because he knows that 's how you like it ) , put it on a plate and then set the plate in front of you . You had a problem ( you were hungry ) and your dad was able to fix that problem just by hearing a single sentence . What if you were talking to a new babysitter ? What would you say ? You might say " Can you please make me a peanut butter and jelly sandwich ? I really like strawberry jelly . We keep the peanut butter in the fridge on the top shelf , and i do n't really like crusts . Thank you " . After all that , the new babysitter would go off and do * exactly * what your dad did , the only difference is you had to spend more time explaining exactly what you wanted . So , later on , your mom comes home with a super smart monkey and a pretty smart monkey . Your mom tells you the monkeys know a handful of tricks . The only difference between the monkeys is the super smart monkey will perform its tricks when you say certain key words , while the pretty smart monkey will only perform his tricks when you do certain hand motions ( he does n't understand english ) . Your mom helps you learn the hand motions and the corresponding english words ( e.g. when you pat your head or say " open " the monkey will open whatever is in front of him ) . Fortunately , the monkeys do n't know a whole lot of tricks , so there is n't a whole lot to memorize . So can you get the monkeys to make you a peanut butter and jelly sandwich by combining all the tricks they knows ? It turns out you can , but it 's kind of difficult . It was easy for your babysitter to pick the strawberry jelly over the apricot jelly , but to get the monkeys to do it you have to tell them to grab all the jelly out of the fridge , put all the jelly on the counter , put them in alphabetical order ( which is even harder to do ) , grab the jar on the far left , then put the rest of the jars back . In fact , anything your babysitter and dad can do , the monkey can also do . actually , in some ways the monkeys are better . Sometimes when your dad is making a sandwicch , he realized the garbage can is full , so he collects the garbage and puts it on the side of the house before finishing the sandwich . The monkeys will happily make you sandwiches all day long , completely ignoring the overflowing garbage can ( unless you tell them to take out the trash ) . So , to bring thins analogy home , the pretty smart monkey is like binary , the super smart monkey is like assembely , the babysitter is like a low level programming language , and the dad is like a high level programming language . Binary and assembly essentially do the exact same thing , but one you 're kind of able to talk to in english , while the other has to be given instructions in 1s and 0s . low level programming languages can do everything the binary and assembly languages can do . the low level language sometimes combines a number of assembly instructions to make your life easier . high level languages make your life super easy , but sometimes they do things without asking . All the languages have trade offs . Generally , low level languages are faster but difficult to work with , while high level languages are easier to work with , but slower .