Ok , this could be a couple of different questions , but lets start with a general description of " binary " , assembly language and higher level languages . Machine Code ( AKA binary ): Machine code is the raw instructions that the CPU in a computer actually executes . That is somewhere inside the CPU is decides that a specific Operation code ( OPCODE ) means to add two registers together . Machine code may be specific to a single CPU or microcontroller ; however often times multiple different CPUs will use the same instruction set . That is they support the same opcodes even though they may have differing instructions . For example the Intel ( x86 ) instruction set has been used since the earliest CPUs that Intel produced . A late 80 's 386 CPU running at 8Mhz runs the same machine code that your modern Intel i7 runs . The i7 has additional operations that make it more efficient and supports additional operations , but the same machine code instructions to add two numbers together are exactly the same . The problem with machine code is that it is difficult for humans to parse / understand . It 's not impossible , but it can take a while to learn that an OPcode of 35 means " Add " and 36 means " Subtract " . The solution to this problem is Assembly Language . Assembly Language : assembly language , or just assembly , is a small step above machine code . Assembly is still specific to a particular CPU , microcontroller , or line of CPUs / microcontrollers , but is much easier for humans to use than machine code . Rather than having to know the specific Opcodes of machine code , they are replaced with easier to remember strings . So use see ADD , and SUB for add and subtract operations . Additionally , registers ( memory local to the physical CPU ) are named as well . So : ADD AX , BX which may add the values in two registers is used rather than the Opcode , and numbers for those registers . Assembly language is compiled ( converted from assembly to machine code ) by a program called an assembler . This is the first level of abstraction away from the CPU . Although assembly is easier to use than machine code , it can still be difficult to write larger programs . Individual memory addresses must be used , specific registers need to be picked for each operation , and general limitations of the CPU / microcontroller must be taken into account while programming . To solve these issues , we move to the next level of abstraction low level programing languages . Low Level Programming Languages : Low level programing languages utilize assembly to make programming even easier . These languages abstract the CPU even further by supporting additional constructs , and managing specific details of the CPU automatically . For example if you wanted to add two numbers together , then multiply by a 3rd and store the result . In assembly you need to specific which registers contain the two values to add , the register for the result of the addition , the register holding the number to multiply by , and finally the register to store the complete result . In a low level programming language this is handled by the compiler , and the programer only needs to write D = ( A + B ) * C. Generally low level programming languages produce automated assembly code , which is the further compiled by the assembler to create machine code . Even higher level programming languages add additional abstractions that may make programming even easier , such as automated memory management , general libraries or bult - in functions for complex operations , etc . So suppose that we decided to go into the CPU production business , and our engineers just created the latest reddit CPU the Narwhal . How do we get the Narwhal from running machine code to running a high level language like Python ? We start by hand writing , or carefully rewriting an assembler to support the Narwhal 's machine code . Once we have an assembler , we can move to a low level compiler like C. Generally C compilers are partially built in assembler , and partially in C. This is done by a process called bootstraping . Bootstraping a compiler involves using an assembler to create a basic C compiler . That basic compiler is then used to compile the remaining C source code producing an even more powerful final C compiler . We can finally use the produced C compiler to produce a Python interpreter . Still do n't understand ? Here 's an analogy . You want a new house , so you hire an Architect to design it . The architects work is handed off to a draftsman , who specifies where exactly to put the walls , how they should be constructed etcetera . Finally the work of the draftsman is sent to the construction workers who actually get the lumber , nail it together , pour the concrete etc . This is the same as what happens in a computer with programming languages where the architect is the low level programming language which says what needs to be done . The draftsman is the same as the assembler which says more precisely what to do , like where to run the electrical an HVAC systems . Finally the constructions workers are like machine code in that they actually get the work done , cutting boards , hammering , and pouring concrete .