Alright , so first you need to know what a solute is and what a solvent is . A solvent is usually what there 's more of . It 's what you start out with . The solute is what you put in the solvent . For example , if you had water and food dye , and you wanted to make orange water ( do n't ask me why ) , water would be your solvent and the orange dye would be your solute - because you put the dye in the water , not vice versa . A mixture of solute and solvent is known as a solution . Now let 's talk about concentration . For something to be ' concentrated ' simply means that there is relatively more solute in the solvent than there is in some other solution . So say I put 5 drops of orange dye in a litre of water and call it Beaker 1 . And then I put 20 drops of orange dye in another litre of water , and call it Beaker 2 . Beaker 2 is more concentrated than beaker one , because there is more solute ( dye ) dissolved in the same amount of solvent ( water ) . Onto osmosis , using a real life example . So a plant is chillin ' in the ground . The plant is using the awesomeness that is photosynthesis to make a bunch of sugar . In the stem of this plant , there 's a ton of sugar ( solute ) and not a lot of water ( solvent - FYI water is always a solvent ) . In the earth / soil that the plant 's roots are chillin ' in , the opposite is true - not a lot of plant sugars , but there is a lot of water . So the stem is much more concentrated than the earth . Osmosis seeks to maintain an EQUILIBRIUM - equal amount of solvent and solute on either side of the membrane . The membrane is simply what separates the two regions of differing concentrations , and here it is the outside layer ( cell wall ) of the plant . So , in order to achieve this equilibrium , the water in the earth moves past the membrane into the plant stem , so as to dilute the solute ( sugars ) in the stem . Thus , with this addition of water , the inside of the stem is no longer more concentrated than the earth outside of it . Make sense ? * * tl;dr * * solvent ( usually water or whatever there is more of ) moves from a place where there 's a lot of it , to a place where there is n't a lot of it .