It is a theoretical model , that has been proven through experiment . Imagine someone gives you a gift . It is a hollow metal sphere but it is packaged in a box . You have no idea what the gift is , but decide to do some experiments to find out , without actually opening the box . First you shake the box and it moves around . This tells you it is relatively light . Then , knowing that it is light , you move it slowly and you feel it rolling . This tells you that it is probably round . Now you are trying to find out what it is made of . You apply heat to the box , then shake to see if it has melted but it has not . You suspect that it is a strong but light material , like a metal alloy - since initial shake tests did n't break it ca n't be brittle . So you decide to touch magnets to the surface of the box . The object does not move and stays attracted to the magnet . This tells you it is metallic . Since it is metallic and relatively light , you suspect , it is hollow . So , you poke a hole in the box , and fill it with water . Comparing the volume of the box , with the volume of water you filled will tell you the size of the object . From this , you can choose a metal - alloy based on the magnetic strength recorded and estimate how hollow it is . All this has been concluded , without actually seeing the sphere . Still , you can only speculate what colour the sphere is or whether it has dimples or not . But from the tests you carried out , you can pretty much acknowledge certain findings as fact . That 's sort of the process people like Rutherford used to determine the atomic model . As for being able to see it , I do n't think so . We have two types of microscope - Light microscope and Electron microscope . LM uses lightwaves ( duh ) and so objects too small to interfere with these waves can not be seen . EM uses electrons ( of course ) , which which are very tiny , and they bounce back of the object at different angles to give us awesome 3d images . I do n't need to tell you what would happen if we tried to fire electrons at an atom ... but that 's beside the point . The Rutherford experiments already did that , and it told us that materials are mostly empty space and there is much distance between the nucleus and an electron . So , you ca n't see the " model " of the atom , but you can see individual atoms using an TEM transmission electron microscope iirc .