Game theory is just a way to turn certain types of hard decisions into math problems . Say we play a game , where I will give you two cookies if you say the word " red " , but three cookies if you instead say the word " blue " . What should you do ? Obviously the answer is you should say " blue " , right ? You get more cookies ! This is a very , very simple game . But we can apply it to lots of situations . Suppose you 're deciding whether to watch Teletubbies or Sesame Street . Let 's say you think to yourself , " watching Teletubbies is about as good as eating two cookies , but watching Sesame Street is about as good as eating three cookies ! " Just by giving cookie - numbers to the two possibilities , we can make it be the same game as before : obviously you choose the three - cookie answer . Let 's take a somewhat more complicated game . This time I 'm going to play too . In this game , we 're both going to say " Red " or " Blue " , but the rules are more complicated . It works like this : 1 ) If we both say " Red " , then we both get one cookie . 2 ) If we both say " Blue " , then we both get two cookies . So far it looks like we want to say " Blue " , does n't it ? But what if we do n't say the same color ? 3 ) If one of us says " Red " and the other says " Blue " , then the " Red " person gets three cookies , and the " Blue " person gets none . Uh oh ! Now it 's complicated . If I pick " Blue " , then you have two choices : you can pick " Blue " and get two cookies ( rule # 2 ) or you can pick " Red " and get three ( rule # 3 ) . Obviously " Red " is better if I pick " Blue " ! But it 's also better if I pick " Red " : then your options are to pick " Red " and get one cookie ( rule # 1 ) or pick Blue and get none ( rule # 3 ) . So you always want to pick " Red " , because it 's always better for you . But the same logic applies to me , it 's also better for me to always choose " Red " . This means that , if we 're both playing selfishly , we 'll always both pick " Red " , and get one cookie each . But obviously both picking " Blue " is better than both picking " Red " , because we 'd both get two cookies ! Obviously , in the real world , we could talk about it , and pinky promise to both pick " Blue " . Or maybe one of us will be nice , and pick " Blue " even though " Red " is always better . But in game theory , we assume that people ca n't trust each other , and that they are selfish . Both picking " Red " is the sort of thing we call a " Nash Equilibrium " . There are all sorts of mathematical rules for figuring out what a Nash Equilibrium is , but do n't worry about it . Basically it is just the option that people will always pick if they 're trying to get the most cookies , and ca n't trust each other . Like our simpler game , we could apply this to the real world . Say you 're fighting over a piece of cake with your brother . If you both fight , it will probably get knocked off the table , and you 'll each only get to eat the frosting that sticks to your fingers . If one of you fights for it and the other gives up , then obviously the fighter will get the cake , and the other person will get nothing at all , not even frosting . If you both give up , you can split it in half . We can turn this into our Red / Blue game just by assigning cookie - numbers to the different possibilities . If frosting is worth one cookie , half a piece is worth two cookies , and the whole piece is worth three , then it 's exactly the same as our Red / Blue game . " Picking Red " is the same as fighting for the cake , and " Picking Blue " is the same as giving up . From our Red / Blue game , and the crazy math we did to find that " Nash Equilibrium " , we know that selfish people who do n't trust each other should always choose to keep fighting , because frosting is better than nothing , and a whole piece is better than a half . This means you 'll always get frosting . But , like before , it would be better to have both given up . Grownups say that the same thing applies to arms races , like the Cold War , and lots of other topics . Game theory is doing this sort of thing for more and more complicated games . You can add more players , make the cookie - numbers more complicated , etc . You can also play the same game over and over again , which changes things . ( Because it might be worth it to share the cake at first , knowing you can always go back to fighting for the next piece if your brother turns out to be untrustworthy . ) It 's just a bunch of math and rules that helps you figure out what the result of this sort of game would be .