To answer your first question ( how do you make this effect ) 1 . Get a picture of a large event where you can see for a long distance within the frame of the picture . See how in the picture you posted you can see many cars close up and also many cars far away ? That 's a good picture to start with ! 2 . Without going into too much technical detail , using a photo editor program you blur just the top and bottom of the picture using a gradient . This means that the top and bottom of the picture will be most blurry and as you get to the center the picture gets less blurry . Congratulations , you just made a tilt - shift picture ! Now , why does it make things look miniature ? Well , this has to do with how your eyes look at small objects . Let 's do a little experiment . Get three little toys and put them on your desk , so that one toy is in front , one toy is in back about 6 inches away , and the last toy is even further back , about another 6 inches away . Now get down towards desk level and close one eye and focus the other eye on the middle toy . You should notice that when you 're focusing on the middle toy the toy in front and the toy in back are blurry . This is because the way your eyes and most camera lenses work , when you 're looking at things relatively close to you ( less than about 1 - 3 feet away ) , the lens in your eye that helps you focus can only focus on a narrow strip at the distance you are focusing . So when you are focusing on the middle toy , only the things that are that toy 's distance away from your eye will be in focus , and everything else in front of and behind the toy will be blurry . This is called * * narrow depth of field * * , meaning that when you are focusing on something close to you , you can only focus on a * * narrow * * strip at the certain * * depth * * ( aka distance from your eye ) of the object you 're looking at in your * * field * * of view . So how does this tie into tilt - shift pictures ? Well basically all these pictures are just mimicking what your eye does when it is looking at small objects close up . The cars closest to the camera ( the ones at the bottom of the picture ) , and the cars farthest from the camera ( the ones at the top of the picture ) , are made blurry because they are in front of or behind the depth at which the camera is " focusing " ( remember in real life that the camera took a picture of real , life - sized objects from very far away so it was basically able to focus on everything all at once ) . But , once you treat the picture with the blurring effects , then your brain perceives the picture as if it was taken by a camera up close to toy - sized objects ! I hope that explanation helped !