* * WHY THEY EXIST * * In order to protect normal people , the SEC has created all sorts of rules and regulations for how companies that invest money on behalf of other people should operate . While this makes the investments safer and less volatile , it prevents the firm making investments from chasing riskier but possibly more profitable investments . * * WHAT ARE THEY * * Hedge funds are companies that make these investments . They are not allowed to have more than 100 investors , and they are not allowed to take on any investors with less than $ 5 million in wealth . Many of their clients are either very wealthy people or institutional investors , such as pension funds , banks , insurance companies , college endowments , or sovereign wealth funds . It 's also very difficult to get into a good hedge fund , as not only are they limited by the number of investors they can take on , but they are also rated on the rate of return they earn on assets , and the more money you have to invest , the more opportunities you need to find . If someone offers to let you invest in their hedge fund , remember the Groucho Marx joke about not wanting to join a country club that would have him as a member . * * GOALS * * So in short , hedge funds gather large piles of money from very wealthy institutions and invest it on their behalf . The goal is to do two things . The first is to demonstrate alpha . To explain this concept , think of it this way . If you hear that the stock market went up by 10 % , and you look at all the stocks on the market , odds are almost all of them went up . A rising tide lifts all boats . This is referred to as beta . Most assets , or portfolios of assets , will move in the direction of general market . Alpha is finding assets that go up even more than the general market . Anybody can just buy into a fund through say Vanguard , and own the broad market index , and get the above mentioned 10 % . People invest in hedge funds to earn an amount above and beyond that 10 % . Alpha is supposed to be the ability to find assets that will do this . The other goal of hedge funds is to earn absolute returns . What this means is that they make money every year , regardless of what the stock market does . A few funds have done this , but 2008 demonstrated that most funds were bluffing in saying they were able to do that , and many of them went out of business . * * HOW DO THEY SET IT UP * * So based on the above , the hedge fund has a large pile of money , millions or sometimes even billions of dollars , invested with it by various clients . A hedge fund is normally staffed by veterans of the financial services industry , typically people who have worked for a long time at investment banks and have contacts within the industry . After accumulating their investment capital , their frequently turn to investment banks , such as Goldman Sachs , Merrill Lynch , or Morgan Stanley , or commercial banks with investment banking arms , such as Citigroup or Bank of America , to borrow large sums of money to leverage this return . What this means if that if you invest $ 100 and make 10 % , you make $ 10 . But if you borrow $ 900 , and invest the full $ 1,000 and make 10 % , you make $ 100 , then pay back the bank $ 900 ( plus interest ) , and you made $ 100 ( less interest ) for your investors off the $ 100 they invested with you . ( The downside of this is that if you lose 10 % on your $ 1,000 investment , you 're down to $ 900 , and your investors are wiped out . This is called blowing up in the jargon , and it happens more than you would think , so leverage can be * very dangerous * ) . The banks like to lend to hedge funds though , because they like the interest income , and they like to hear what leads the hedge funds are following ( financial services is very incestuous , and rumors drive trades ) . The hedge funds like to borrow from the banks because , notwithstanding the need for leverage , the investment banks have contacts within the publicly traded companies . Say you 're doing a bond offering through Goldman Sachs . Maybe in the process of that , you meet their hedge fund clients , and talk up your business to them to drive demand for your stock , while they hear from the CFO and CEO personally , and make better decisions than the average investor pouring over financial statements . * * WHAT DO THEY INVEST IN * * OK , so now we have a bunch of guys who used to work for investment banks , with investor money , contacts at investment banks , and large piles of borrowed money . What do they invest in ? The short answer is whatever they want . There are a number of recognized investing styles though . 1 ) Long short - These are the most simple funds . They buy some stocks , and short other stocks . The desire is to assemble a portfolio that will earn both above average and absolute returns . The concept of going long and short , done to hedge risks , is how the industry got its name back in the 1950s . 2 ) Global Macro - These funds invest in assets that will give them exposure to broad economic forces , which they hope to predict . Do you think the euro is going to break up ? Short it , and euro - denominated assets . Do you think we 've hit peak oil ? Buy oil companies , and oil futures . George Soros became famous for making billions for predicting that England would be forced to devalue its currency in the 1980s . 3 ) Directional - These tend to be referred to as " black box funds " , meaning that no one knows what their criteria are , as it is a trade secret . Often they write computer programs designed to go through millions of pages of data , and analyze all kinds of data to find mispriced assets and go long or short on them . High frequency traders do this with stocks by setting up a computer near a stock exchange that can buy stocks and sell them again within nanoseconds . I also read about a fund that combs through publicly available filings through the Food and Drug Administration , looking for any changes regarding new drugs , to use as information on pharmaceutical stocks . 4 ) Event Driven Funds - As the name suggests , the buy or sell short assets whose price will be affected by future events . Merger arbitrage is a common form of this . When one company acquires another , usually the buyer 's stock goes down , as they are probably overpaying , while the acquired company 's stock jumps , as someone is about to overpay for it . Short the predator and buy the prey . In the movie * Wall Street * , Charlie Sheen uses contacts with a law firm to find clients of the firm who are planning mergers to conduct this sort of strategy , and is arrested when the feds flip one of his accomplices . The most famous example of this strategy is John Paulson , who made billions off the housing bubble buying credit default swaps on collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ) . * The Big Short * by Michael Lewis also analyzes funds that took this approach . ( I believe Paulson is now following a macro strategy , and has been buying up gold mines , evidence that funds can change strategies ) . 5 ) Fund of funds - This is a hedge fund that invests its money in other hedge funds . By diversifying among various funds , the hope is that returns will be less volatile and safer . If one fund blows up and loses all its money , that might be 5 % of your investment rather than 100 % . There is a pretty long list of other recognized strategies , many too complicated to worry about here . ( For example , the Galleon hedge fund , which was in the news recently , was using contacts in consulting firms and other places to obtain and trade on inside information . The founder is now facing 15 to 19 years in prison . It was an effective strategy , but one that obviously had severe consequences . ) But the point of this is to indicate that they can invest in whatever they want , and will be judged solely on how much money it makes . * * HOW DO THEY GET PAID * * You 've probably already heard about how many hedge funds make billions in profits . Hedge funds get paid in two ways . The first is the management fee . If you invest money with a hedge fund ( or anyone for that matter ) , the first thing they do is take a percentage of your money from you and keep it for themselves . Hedge funds typically charge 2 % of assets under management each year . They use this money to pay employees , rent office space , and cover overhead until their real payday arrives at the end of the year . The other means of payment is the performance fee . At the end of the year , the fund tallies how much money it made for investors , and takes a chunk of it for themselves . 20 % is typical , but amounts have varied . So if the fund makes $ 5 billion for its investors , it is a $ 1 billion payday for the people who run the fund . If you have a lot of money under management , and earn high rates of return , you an become fantastically wealthy very quickly .