Through democracy ! * * LY5 / TL;DR :* * Hitler was elected chancellor legitimately . An attack on the Reichstag building ( main building of the Nazi Party ) allowed Hitler to be granted an Enabling Act , meaning he had absolute power over Germany . He was granted this in order to restore peace to Germany , instead he used this power to force all of the other political parties to disband , then created a law which prevented other political parties from being allowed to form . Germany was then a single - state country , and he was essentially free to do whatever he wanted . * * Long Version * * The Great Depression in the 1930 's hit Germany very hard . They were still recovering from WWI and the collapse of the world market was devastating . Unemployment was extremely high and many of Germany 's businesses and industries were failing . From 1920 to 1930 the Nazi Party had been gaining members and growing in influence , but it lacked any real power . In the 1930 's Federal Election the Nazi Party ran for parliament and received about 18 % of the votes , finally granting it some political power in Germany . From 1930 to 1932 the Nazi Party gained even more popular in Germany . Hitler appealed to the lower and middle classes by promising new jobs and industries , to overturn the Treaty of Versailles ( which prevented Germany from having any military , divided up much of Germany 's land and more ) , and to protect Germany from communism . In 1932 , another election was held , and the Nazi Party won the majority of the votes . Hitler was officially elected Chancellor of Germany when the elections were finished in January 1933 . Not long after Hitler was appointed Chancellor there was an attack on the Reichstag building , which was seen as the landmark structure of the Nazi Party . Hitler used this attack to appeal to the president of the Weimar Republic ( which is , as I understand it , acts like a watchdog for the government ; making sure it does n't break any rules ) to pass an Enabling Act for four years while he tries to settle down the political unrest in the country . He was granted the Enabling Act in March of 1933 . An Enabling Act is something which grants the leader of a country power to make decisions without needing to consult the parliament . This meant that Hitler was free to do whatever he wanted , and no political parties could object . > From Wikipedia Hitlers Enabling Act of 1933 was : - was limited to four years - enabled government not only to create decrees , but even laws and treaties with other countries - these laws could deviate from the constitution - there were no thematic limits - neither any house committee nor the Reichsrat ( the common organ of the German regional states ) had the right to control , or to abolish these laws Meaning that whatever Hitler decided became law , and nobody was allowed to challenge or abolish them . It 's important to remember that Hitler was granted these powers by his government , he did n't forcefully take them . Hitler quickly disbanded all other political parties and made it illegal for new political parties to form . Germany all of a sudden became a single - state country . Hitler was now in complete control of Germany , and he did it through legitimate methods . He was voted Chancellor , and he was granted absolute power by his government . He abused the power , to be certain , but the enabling act put him above any laws , so he was allowed to . Hitler used the Gestapo and the SS to take out anyone who challenged him or disagreed with him , whether they were part of the Nazi Party or not . Anyone who worked against the Nazi Party was executed . By 1937 , when the Enabling Act ended , Hitler had already secured absolute control of the country . > Note : Most of my facts are from books + the internet , if I messed anything up or left anything out , feel free to correct me .