* * Like . You . Are . Five . * * There are lots of different kinds of money , but pretty much all of them have somebody in charge . Maybe it 's a bank or a government or a company , but there 's somebody that everyone else has to go to if they want to use the money . Some guy in Japan was thinking " I wonder if you could have a money without having one big guy in charge ? " That would be nice , because then you would n't have to worry about the guy in charge being a jerk . So , he came up with a way to make a money where instead of having one big guy in charge , zillions of people all watch each other and they all vote to make sure they all agree on how much money everyone has . Everyone knows how much money everyone else has and every time someone gives someone else some money , they both tell the whole world and it goes into the Bitcoin Public Permanent Record . That way , if someone tries to lie about what happened later , the whole world can check the Permanent Record and prove that they 're lying . So , the guy in Japan had a problem : He needed to make adding something to the Bitcoin Public Permanent Record super - duper hard to do so that it would be super - duper hard to fake and trick everyone , but how could he get anyone to actually do all that hard work ? He came up with the idea that every entry in the Permanent Record would record a bunch of people 's trades , but it would also have one , extra special trade of 50 coins that can go to anybody . The rule was that whoever did the work that set up the entry to be good enough for the Permanent Record could give mark those 50 coins as going to anyone he wants --even himself ! A lot of people liked this idea and they started trading bitcoins for fun . Eventually , it got popular enough that some people started trading stuff for bitcoins and even dollars for bitcoins ! How many dollars for a coin ? Well , that depends on how much the guy with dollars wants a coin . There 's no law stopping you from trading stuff for dollars and as far as the government is concerned , bitcoins are some weird kind of stuff --like gold or maybe more like pogs ...