Net neutrality has a lot of issues and solutions associated with it , but I 'll try and explain what I know . People who are against net neutrality usually argue this : there are people who use more bandwidth doing things like streaming or downloading media ( legally or illegally ) . Often , they 'll say , does n't it make more sense for someone who 's constantly downloading movies or seeding torrents to pay more than a person who only reads websites ? Sounds simple enough , right ? Some companies have bandwidth caps , or they have different data plans , where you pay more money to get more bandwidth . However , the problem with this is that doing just about anything on the internet will take up bandwidth in some form . Loading an image takes more bandwidth than text ; video more than pictures , etc . However , we do n't always have a choice . Checking out sites on Google ? Who knows if they 're full of pictures , flashing banner ads , auto - playing videos , etc . It 's very easy to eat up bandwidth without meaning to . Essentially , you 're making certain websites much harder to access for certain people . If someone chooses not to go to a website , or is unable to go to a website , because of lack of bandwidth , it 's no longer neutral . People with more money have more access . A poorer person can access plain texts , e - mails and IMs ; a medium income person gets the charts , photographs and PDFs ; and a wealthy person gets video access and skype . Furthermore , there are legitimate reasons to use a high bandwidth , like Netflix or Hulu , online gaming , certain types of tech work , etc . A person is paying to use those services , and doing so legally . Arguably , they should n't be punished for choosing to use those sites by having to pay for more bandwidth . One of the ideas that tends to come up in these discussions is the idea of making the internet more like cable , as illustrated in [ this image ] ( URL_0 ) . With television , you have the basic free access channels ( ABC , NBC , CBS ) , but you pay extra for cable and premium channels . Some people think that a similar system for the internet -- say , basic access to google , pay a bit more for youtube , pay premium for netflix -- would be a good way to handle this issue , but , again , you lose the neutrality . Certain people ca n't access certain websites . There 's also the extreme case ( fairly unlikely ) where certain providers would have better or more access to certain sites . Like , NBC cuts a deal with Comcast to make NBC websites and shows cheaper to Comcast users . We have seen something similar to this cropping up with streaming films -- companies choosing to start their own streaming video sites instead of giving the licenses to Hulu or Netflix . Obviously , this is good for the company , as they make more profit , but does n't particularly help the consumer , who now has to subscribe to multiple companies for different shows . The long and short of it is , people still do n't know how to make money off of the internet , and ending net neutrality is one of the ways people are trying to profit -- by making us pay more to get to the sites we want .