> Clearly the NATO and Russia are both losing in this current crisis . NATO is n't losing . Ukrainian crisis is the best thing to happen , for NATO , in a long time . Pretty much all NATO members ( except for the US ) were limiting their expenditures more and more year after year . The US was constantly trying to get other NATO - members to step up their involvement , but they all would keep declining . NATO was sliding into irrelevance . At the end , they were trying to position themselves as the protectors of the world from Iran ( for the lack of any other " mission " ) , but that was n't working out . They were still becoming less relevant with each passing day . And now , well , they are the saviors of the western world , once again . More relevant than ever . And since any entity fights for its existence above all other objectives ( which is just natural ) , it 's really safe to say that NATO ( as the organization ) is the greatest beneficiary of this whole situation . Russia is definitely losing . But Russia would be losing in either case . Years of problems / corruption / tensions compounding . No good exit strategy really exists . Europe is losing . Economically , this whole thing is really damaging . But it 's a matter of political principle . If they do n't step up , they 'll no longer be viewed as one super - entity . Instead , they would be de - facto divided back into separate countries . The only truly winning parties are US and China . For the US , it 's crucial to make sure Europe and Russia do n't get too comfy together , because then the dominance of the US would diminish . Which now , thanks to the Ukrainian situation , is no longer a possibility for another 10 - 20 - 30 years . US is still the only big dog in town for the foreseeable future , or at least until China steps up . And for China , Russia is now forced to deal with them on their terms . China can now dictate the terms of Russia 's " turn to the east " that was announced . Russia is backed into a corner , and China is the only alternative for Russia . Which is a great advantage for China . That 's globally . Locally , in Ukraine , it 's mostly various groups of oligarchs and field commanders that are trying to get bigger piece of the pie . Some are losing and some are winning .