First off , I want to start off by saying that hacking is not always negative . In fact , a lot of hacking is very positive . It 's tough to find a subjective article on the topic , but " Hacktivism " is often just about getting people to look at things in new ways . And even in the defined realm of computer hacking , many , many hackers are honestly out there not to find and * use * weaknesses in the system , but to find and * fix * them , or otherwise improve the situation . That said , there are many different ways to accomplish the kind of hacking you 're asking about . In general terms , it goes something like this : * * * * * 1 . Pick a goal . Whether it 's an e - mail account , a website , or a whole server , you need to know what you 're trying to find weaknesses in . We 'll go with an e - mail account in this example . 2 . Research how it works . You do n't want to just find out how e - mail works in general , though . You need to know specifically how this e - mail account is set up . What kind of software is the host using to run it , for example ? What 's the IP address of any machine that is hosting it ? You 'll need a lot of specific information . If just accessing the account is your goal , you may try a dictionary attack on the password , or you may research the account holder and see if you can get a birthday or pet 's name or spouse 's name to work as the password . There 's a whole collection of potentials , and people are often quite weak with their passwords , so individual account hacking is less difficult than you 'd think . 3 . Try what 's already been done . If a previous hacker has found an exploit for the system you 're working with , use it . If there 's a weak link that 's been hit before , go after it . If the software is similar to one that 's already been broken , try going at it in the same way . You may need to modify these prior methods , but often you 'll be able to get one of them to work . 4 . If the system is well secured , or simply new enough to not have been broken yet , you 'll need to get your hands dirty , possibly finding a copy of the software and playing around with it on a base level , or else by trying . Most hackers would use an educated guess - and - check methodology whereby they say " it clearly has to do X , which means it 's probably doing Y in the background , and I know I can play with that process , " and then try to mess up the internals . Coming up with new hacks is not a quick and easy process like it seems to be on TV and movies . 5 . Reap the benefits , and avoid the cops if you 're doing something illegal . * * * * * In most cases the hacking groups manage to use tried - and - true methods to break into systems using known weaknesses . Sony , for example , was beaten by an " SQL Injection " allegedly , which is where instead of typing in valid information ( like a reddit post , or a username / password combination ) for a form , they type in code that requests information back from the underlying server . If the form is n't properly protected , the server just reads that as a command , and provides the requested information . This is a relatively elementary method and easily protected against , but often companies do n't change what has n't been exploited yet .