> What does the concept of " free trade " really mean ? [ LY5 ] imagine that you want to play with your neighbor but every time that you want to play with him you must ask your parents for permission now , there is one more problem : your neighbor lives far away from you , and each time you want to play at his house you must cross a bridge and pay your neighbor for using that bridge the same applies to your neighbor but vice versa : every time that he wants to play in YOUR house he must pay YOU for using the bridge to come to your house , and ask his parents for permission one day your parents and your neighbor 's parents agree that you and your neighbor can come to play to each other house 's whenever you guys want to without asking your parents for permission and without paying for using the bridge that agreement is called free trade your parents are the USA and your neighbor 's parents are Mexico . you are Microsoft and your neighbor is Telmex ( a Mexican company ) . Microsoft can do business with Telmex without complicated burdens and vice - versa > What is North American Free Trade Agreement , who exactly agreed upon it ? it is a trade agreement signed by Canada , the USA , and Mexico > why is it controversial ? [ LY5 ] let 's go back to playing with your neighbor . after going to play at his house for a while you notice that his house is unhealthy and that your neighbor is not well fed . your neighbor 's parents can afford to buy more toys for your neighbor because they are not required to invest in their house nor in the nutrition of your neighbor suddenly , you never want to play at your own house , simply because your neighbor has more toys you ask your parents to buy you as many more toys as your neighbor but your parents ca n't because the laws in the USA require that your parents invest in a healthy house and in a healthy nutrition for yourself your parents ca n't afford to buy more toys because of the regulations that force them to maintain a high quality of life these regulations are mostly environmental , commercial , and work - related regulations ( such as wages ) which were not contained in the agreement for example , canada might have a regulation that forbids it to use coal in factories because coal is harmful for the environment . but Mexico might not have that same regulation . the thing is that manufacturing in Mexico by using coal might be cheaper than manufacturing in Canada without coal . this causes that all manufacturing migrates to Mexico . the issue was that the use of coal was not ratified in the original agreement . Canada ratified that regulation , on its own nation and by its own , after the agreement was signed ( once again , coal is a fictitious example )