there are 11 players on each side , played on a big oval pitch ( a field with grass on ) . In the middle of the oval is a pale strip , where the bowler throws a cricket ball at a team of batsmen from the other side . He 's trying to smash the three wooden poles called wickets , with the ball , but sometimes the bowler tries to make the batsmen hit it in the air so that the bowlers teammates can catch the ball . If they catch the ball while it 's in the air , before it 's hit the ground , the batsman is out . The batsman tries to score runs . He hits the ball in different ways so that he and his teammate at the other end of the strip can run back and forward between the wickets and score runs . If he hits it off the pitch without it hitting the ground , he does n't have to run because he gets 6 runs automatically , and no more . If he hits it off the pitch but it DOES hit the floor , he gets 4 runs automatically , but no more . The bowler , and the fielders try to catch the ball and throw it back while the batsmen are out of their ' crease ' , which is a little safe zone they stand in next to the wicket . It 's a line drawn in white . If the batsmen gets put out by the other team , then one of the other 11 players takes up his place . In theory , they should go through all 11 players , and that brings an end to the ' innings ' . Innings can end early because the batting side can say ' we 've had enough ' , or because of bad weather . The bowler is allowed to bowl 6 times . That 's called an ' over ' . Wide balls , and no - deliveries do n't count . In some games , the number of ' overs ' is limited to a set number to shorten the game and make it more exciting . There are a few different kinds of bowling styles . Some people like to throw it really fast to hit the wickets . Some people like to spin the ball and make it go in different directions to get around the batsman or make him hit it badly . The bowler will do whatever he can to try and trick the batsman . There are a few ways the batsman can go out . -Hit the wickets with the ball -The fielders catch a hit ball before it touches the floor -Leg before wickets . The ball is definitely going to hit the wickets , but it hits the batsman 's leg first . -When the batters are scoring runs , and are out of their ' creases ' ( batters safe zone ) the fielders hit the wickets with the ball -The batsman hits his own wickets by accident -The batsman hits the ball twice ( rarely happens ) -Deliberately touches the ball -After a batsman gets put out , if the next one does n't arrive by 3 minutes , he 's out too . After everyone has batted , the teams swap , and whoever has scored the most runs , wins the game ! ! ! Hope this is a good basic guide . edit : to include pitch explanation