One team bats while the other team bowls and fields . The team which is bowling tries to get all of the batsmen " out " in one of several ways : * Caught ( the batsman hits the ball with his bat or hand , and one of the fielders catches it before it touches the ground ) * Bowled ( the bowler manages to knock the bails from the stumps - the stumps are three sticks in the ground and the bails are two smaller sticks which balance on top of them . ) * LBW ( The ball hits the batsman on the leg , and the umpire decides that it * would * have knocked the bails from the stumps if he had n't got in the way ) * Hit Wicket ( The batsman goes full retard and knocks the bails off himself ) * Stumped / Run Out ( The batsman leaves his crease after facing a delivery and the fielding team manages to knock the bails off with the ball before he can get back behind it . The crease is a line 1 yard in front of the stumps . ) * Handled ball ( The batsman deliberately plays the ball with his hand , usually to stop it rolling on to the stumps ) . The batsman try to score as many ' runs ' as they can before they get out . A run is scored by the two batsmen ( there are always two on the pitch - one at each end ) running down the pitch and swapping ends before the fielding team can run either of them out . You can score as many runs as you want at a time - if you can run from one end to the other 150 times without the fielding team managing to knock the bails off , then you would score 150 runs ( although this would never happen ) . You can also score boundaries . If you hit the ball over a rope which marks the edge of the field , you score either 6 runs ( for clearing it without bouncing ) or 4 runs . The game is divided into ' overs ' . An over is a period of 6 balls bowled by the same bowler from the same end of the pitch . He bowls at whichever batsman happens to be standing at that end of the pitch at the time ( which can change from ball to ball if they score an odd number of runs from a shot ) . At the end of an over , another bowler takes over and bowls an over from the opposite end of the pitch . The difference between the forms of the game is : * Test Cricket - the classic form of the game . Each side has two batting innings , and whoever scores the most runs after all of the opponents have been given ' out ' in both innings wins . If 5 days passes without anybody having won ( remember - to win you have to bowl the opposing team out twice and score more runs than they did in total ) then the game is a draw . * Limited overs ( One Day ) cricket . This is where a result is forced by having each team play one innings of a set number of overs , and whoever has the most runs after both teams have batted wins . Simple as that . The two forms of limited over international cricket are ODIs , which are 50 overs per side , and T20 , which is 20 overs per side . In test cricket , the batsmen are much more cautious , because it 's more important not to get out than it is to score quickly . In limited overs games , you simply have to score quickly to win , so it 's much more acceptable to take risks and play shots which could get you out . The opposite is true for bowlers - in test matches , it is far more important for them to take wickets than anything else , so they can take risks with where the fielders stand and the types of delivery they bowl to make it more likely that if a batsmen makes a mistake you will get him out , but if he does n't there will be lots of gaps for him to hit the ball to and score runs . In limited overs games , they really are more interested in stopping the batsman scoring than anything else .