Become independently wealthy . Not only does this give you the ability to self - finance your campaigns , but you 'll gain social connections to a lot of people who can donate a lot money to you when you run . Also , no one wants to vote for someone who is poor or even middle - income-- they see elected officials as extensions of themselves , and they want to see an idealized version of themselves . You must be that idealized version . That means being rich and good looking . While you 're getting rich , get involved in your community , wherever that may be . Go to neighborhood association meetings . Get on the chamber of commerce . Volunteer at a food shelf . Just get involved . This gives you a better idea of what 's going on and what people are concerned about , and allows you to network with a lot of important people . It allows people to get to know you . Also get involved in your local party . This is an important first step-- party leaders choose candidates , so make sure you get to know them . Side note : Idealists will tell you it 's possible for a third - party candidate to win the presidency , but do n't kid yourself . There are only two member of Congress who are n't officially members of either major political party , and the last president to not be a member of the Democratic or Republican parties was Millard Fillmore ( 1850 - 1853 ) . Pick one party and stick with it . Figure out which issues are important to you . For me , it 's education , gay rights , budgeting , tax fairness , and military spending . For you , it 'll likely be different . Pick a few issues ( 3 - 4 is sufficient ) and become really well informed on them . These are the issues you 'll run on in your first election . They might change a bit as time goes on , but that 's not a problem . Make sure your issues , and the way you frame your views on those issues , are popular with your voting bloc . All right , so now you 're a wealthy , respectable , involved member of the community with issues you care about . Now it 's time to run for office . Pick an office to run for . You should probably start relatively small-- city council , school board , or the like . You could , at this point , probably go for state representative or state senator if you 're feeling like you 've got a strong base to run with . If you 're exceedingly wealthy or lucky , you might even consider running for the US House or Senate , but it 's rare to jump that high right away ; few succeed ( John Edwards in North Carolina , for example ) . Now you have to begin electioneering . Imagine the voting public as concentric circles . At the center are higher - ups in your party , and , as you move out , you get closer to the general voting public . For every campaign , you have to start in the innermost circle and move outward . Without support from the inner circles , you 'll be unable to move to the outer circles . You 'll begin with party chairs , elected officials , major donors , and [ opinion leaders ] ( URL_0 ) . This is what 's known as the " invisible primary " where higher - ups pick and choose candidates before they 're even , officially speaking , candidates . If they like your candidacy , you 'll move on to the rank - and - file members , who will determine whether you 'll be the party 's nominee via primary election , caucuses , or nominating conventions . Should you succeed , you 'll move on to the general election , where you 'll face nominees from other parties . If you win the general election , you get in office . Once you 're in your first office , distinguish yourself somehow . Pass some major legislation . Become a member of the leadership . Chair a committee . Make a speech that becomes a youtube sensation . Whatever . This sets the stage to allow you to move up to higher office . After a few years in your first office ( 4 - 8 years is probably good , anything longer and you 're making it a career ) make a run at a higher office . The process is largely the same , just on a larger scale . With luck and hard work , you 'll eventually get in an office that will be high enough to run for the presidency . As a rule , this means you must be a governor , senator , or vice president . This whole time , you need to be : 1 . Speaking and getting involved in party activities at the state , local , and national levels 2 . Networking with elected officials , donors , party officials , businessmen , and anyone who might become important 3 . NOT cheating on your wife or getting involved in shady business deals or anything that could sink your future candidacy 4 . Working towards receiving the support of major interest groups 5 . FUNDRAISING . All the damn time . Money is politics , politics is money . Without money , you wo n't get anywhere . You as Governor / Senator / Vice President alphatangodelta have announced your candidacy for the presidency . You 're now on stage with 12 other equally qualified candidates who are better known than you , can raise more money from you , are more charismatic than you , or have the advantage of being a woman or minority . You 're going to look like John Jackson or Jack Johnson up there . Somehow you have to beat everyone else on that stage , then whoever the other party throws at you . Good luck .