I 'm interpreting your question to mean " What does HTML5 do that ' normal ' HTML does not " , since anyone who knows CSS and JS probably knows the basics of HTML . Let me know if this is incorrect . HTML is used to display web pages and is a standard implemented by all web browsers . This standard is specified by the [ W3C ] ( URL_0 ) , whose members are professionals from different organizations . It is important to have a standard so that each browser implements the same HTML , so that web pages look similarly in all browsers ( it does n't always work , but it 's close enough ) . New standards are only released every couple of years to make sure that any changes are well thought out and to give web browser developers time to implement them . HTML5 is the newest version of HTML that implements a variety of new features . There are too many to get into all the details , but I can talk about some of the important ones . * Native playback of video and audio . Although we have been watching video in our browsers for a long time , this has always been using plugins such as Adobe Flash . HTML5 adds the ability to stream video and audio without the use of these plugins . * A canvas element that can be used to easily created animations , images , and games . Imagine a mini version of MS Paint embedded in your web page but is entirely drawn by the computer . * The ability to store data off - line in the browser . Websites typically store information on the server , such as what reddit messages you have posted . Off - line storage lets a web page store information in your browser that can be retrieved later by a different page from the website . This way you can , e.g. , write a document in google docs when you 're off - line in your browser , save it , close the browser , and then the next time you open google docs and are connected to the internet , it 'll retrieve the data from off - line storage and upload it to the server . * Drag and drop , so you can e.g. drag a file from your desktop to your browser to upload it . Many of the features , like video , have been possible with plugins like Flash , but one of the goals of HTML5 is to make it possible to write really cool web pages using just native HTML . HTML5 has also become somewhat of a " catch - all " term used to talk about anything new and shiny when it comes to web pages , even if the features is n't technically part of HTML5 , just like people use " cloud " to talk about anything internet - y.