I wrote my final work at university about localisation with wireless networks . The problem with it is it sucks . You can talk it pretty and i did it a lot in my work because i wanted it to sound good and usable . But if you have any other possibility of localisation it is a lot better than triangulation with WiFi networks . But there is one important reason to use it , indoor navigation . As soon as you enter a building you will most likely lose your GPS signal and your great localisation ability . And Wifi is a great way to close this localization gap . And it is good enough to tell you in which room you are ( as long as you are in bigger rooms ) but errors of 5 meters or more are something that will happen a lot . The main problem with Wifi localization is that it 's usually done by checking the signal strength of the wifi network and it differs a lot , it depends on weather , humidity , materials used and even how many people are around . It 's really hard to make a model that takes all of those factors into consideration and is able to give a good localization result . In addition to that there 's the problem that modern routers usually have some kind of energy saving option that will disturb your measurements even more . There may be some exceptions to this , some museums / supermarkets have a very controlled area where weather / humidity and routers do n't change that often . This allows you to have a rather good localization indoors . Another possibility of improving your localization would be the pure mass of wifi networks , for example in a skyscraper filled with flats and wifi networks - the pure mass of information will give you a rather good position . And in both of those cases GPS is n't available or a viable option to rely on , which makes WiFi not only the best but the only way to locate your phone . Edit : and of course to use WiFi to locate your phone you need to have a database that tells you where all the different WiFi routers are . It may come from Google cars or a supermarket may provide the exact positions . For better advertisement or guided museum tours , where the WiFi is set up to be used as a localization tool . And i should mention that you can use special algorithems that fuse gps and wifi localization but if you compare the additional energy consumption you need to the improvement in your position it 's usually not worth it at all . Even though a small improvement can be achieved even when you use gps , basically a computer can guess how wrong both gps and wifi are and calculate some kind of average to get the best of both . But best of both is usually GPS .