Writing a successful college essay is 20 % writing skill / style , 20 % topic , and 60 % avoiding a mine field of cliches and phrases that will just piss your admissions officer off . Step 1 : Figure out what you 're good at . Pick three of these things . I 'll use myself as an example . I picked telling stories , writing lyrically , and soccer . Step 2 : Figure out what you enjoy . I picked listening to the radio , riding in the car , and New York City . Step 3 : The anecdote . Mine your personal history for something that combines at least 4 of these elements . It just has to be a glimmer of a memory . Mine was about driving around NYC on Passover listening to the baseball on the radio . Step 4 : ELABORATE . Write a full page describing everything you can about that memory . Step 5 : Edit step 4 . You 're going to want to cut that down to half a page . Step 6 : Jazz it up with something impressive . Ever had an internship ? Successfully interacted with an adult ? Read a cool book in an interesting way ? Relate that to your experience . * * You do n't have to discover the meaning of life but figure out some way that these things you like , things you 're good at , and experiences you have make you into someone that these people want on their campus . If they read your essay and feel like they could n't stand to be in a room with you for an hour , you 've done something wrong . * * tl;dr do n't come off like a prick . Step 7 : Make this fit onto one page . The margins do n't have to be crazy but if they do n't have to flip the page they do n't have that split second to realize how much you suck . Step 8 : Show it to people . You 're guidance counselor , your mom , your favorite english teacher , your best friend . They will give you advice . Feel free to ignore it but listen to what they have to say . If all of these people say you sound like a brown - nosed dick , you 've done something wrong . Step 9 : * * Put it down and focus on the other smaller elements of the application . * * When I met my admissions officer after I had been admitted to my top choice she said the main thing she remembered about my application was my list of books I had read recently . Step 10 : The step of don'ts . * * DO NOT * * talk about how a book that 's common on school reading lists changed your life ( Catcher in the Rye , Macbeth , Pride and Prejudice , Jane Eyre , The Scarlet Letter- these are essay killers . ) * * DO NOT * * write about that time you were in a car accident or that time you scored the winning goal or that time you hated high school ( note : if there is honestly something like a trauma that has affected your life significantly write a short piece about this and put it in the additional materials section . If your entire family died in a car crash and you had to switch schools and your grades dipped , the admissions people should know about it . ) * * DO NOT * * write about how hard it is to write this essay or about procrastination * * DO NOT * * write a witty , non - narrative , post - structuralist ode ( unless it 's great ) .