When you want to start a business you need some money . So a small business starter will usually go to the bank and ask for a loan . This is called " issuing debt " to start a business . If the business succeeds you get the bank gets the money back ( with interest . If the business fails , the bank does n't get its money back ( usually the business goes into " bankruptcy " which means a court will divide up what remains of the business ' assets up to the various people who are owed money , but the bank loses most of its money usually ) . Now when a really large business wants to borrow a lot of money , sometimes there is n't one large enough bank to lend it this money . So it goes to the " bond " market . This is a market where businesses announce that they want to borrow say 10 billion dollars , and will somebody please lend it to them ? So they issue " bonds " . These are promises to pay people money . So a simple bond may say something like I , sanyasi , promise to pay the bearer of this bond 100 dollars on July 29th 2012 . This is officially called a zero - coupon one - year bond ( I know , fancy name , right ? ) . Now people bid on that bond . So if you think hey , I trust this sanyasi guy , and he 's issuing 10 billion of these , but he 's good for the money . So I will buy that bond at 95 dollars . This means you give me 95 dollars and wait for a year . In a years time you will show up at my doorstep and ask for your 100 dollars . This means I borrowed money at a 5.26 % interest rate . ( 100/95 ) . Now if you think hey , this sanyasi guy is shady . He 's mostly likely not going to pay me back . But I think its worth a risk . So I 'll buy it for 20$. This means I 'm paying a 400 % interest rate ( ! ! ! ) to borrow money . Bond markets were first started in Renaissance Italy for trading vessels to borrow money and things like that . But you can see how they are limited : if I 'm very trustworthy , its easy for me to borrow money , but if I 'm more risky , people do n't really want to lend me money and its very expensive . So in Amsterdam and Paris around the 16th century , some smart guys say , hey , instead of lending people money , how about instead we become PART of the company 's owners ? They called this the " joint - stock corporation " . So instead of me lending you money , I become part owner of your company . if your company does well , well I now own part of what that company is worth . If it fails , we fail together . This is more risky than a bond market , so people who want to take part in more risk ( more risk means more rewards , right ? ) invest in the stock market . Companies also usually need money for risky ventures . Say you are a ship captain in 1600 and want to buy some gold to go sailing to the East Indies to buy spices and come back . You do n't have the gold . Nobody will lend you money for it ( or the interest rate is too high ) . So you try to sell " stock " in your new company . You say --- look skydreamer303 , you give me 50 gold bars and when I come back from the East Indies , I will give you half my profits . Now this is an easy transaction for us to make , but what about really large companies ? They issue " stock " . This means they write out , say , 1 million pieces of paper saying " each owner of this piece of paper is entitled to one part out of a total of however many pieces of paper there are " . So if there are 1 million pieces of paper , each piece of paper is an equal " share " . Now each share is thus entitled to an equal part of the profits . Typically a company will say , we have 1 million shares totally , we are going to issue another half a million shares . This means that we are now going to go down from owning 100 % of the company to just 67 % of the company , but that is okay because the new money that the half a million will bring in will make our company better overall . This is how shares are issued . But who decides the price ? When a company goes and says we are issuing half a million shares , this means that they go to a " stock market " and announce this , and then people bid . In an " exchange " market , the " exchange " will manage this auction and give it to the highest half a million bidders . This sets a " price " for the stock . Some people are more patient than others . They may decide after waiting for a year , hey , that ships not coming back . I want to get out . So they go to the market and try to sell it . Remember , the profit comes back to whoever holds that piece of paper when the ship returns . So people might be willing to buy it . If everybody is pessimistic as well , then the " stock price " goes down --- because nobody wants to buy it for what it originally sold for . If people are upbeat , then the stock price goes " up " . Fast forward to the 21st century , and many many companies are on the stock market . But the basic truth holds . When you buy a share of a company , you are buying part of that company . The stock market exists so that people can buy and sell at any time before profits are announced or " dividends " are given ( this is when a company returns part of the profits back to the stock owners ) . Sometimes stock owners will yell and scream for more dividends because they think the company is sitting on a pile of cash and it belongs to the stock owners and they want it back . Finally , if you like this history of the stock market , and you want to learn more about the origins of things like currency , paper money , bond markets , stock markets , bubbles , you should read " The Ascent of Money " by economic historian Niall Ferguson ( who is incidentally also a class - one douche , but writes very good books on this subject ) . I hope this helps .