The first part is in the name . " Relativity " . That is , everything is relative to the observer . Imagine yourself on a train zooming along down the tracks . You bounce a ball on the table in front of you . What do you see ? A ball bouncing straight up and down . Now imagine someone is at the side of the tracks and they see you bouncing the ball . What do they see ? A ball describing arcs ( i.e. it hits the table and as it travels up it moves " forward " to its apex then back down to the table ... the person on the side of the tracks , if the plotted its movement , would see it traveling in an arc ) . Who is right ? Is it going straight up and down or moving in an arc ? Actually you are both right at the same time although you are both seeing very different results . That simple thought experiment is profound when you consider the implications ( e.g. two people can disagree on the order of events ) . Read up on " Frames of Reference " for more . So , that is where the " relativity " part comes from but you have not specified the General Theory or the Special Theory . The above is the Special Theory of Relativity ( also where E = MC^2 comes from ) . The more complex ( and published after and separate ) is the General Theory of Relativity . The General Theory relates the geometry of space - time . Powerful stuff . Gave the world a new view on gravity and ushered in the likes of Black Holes . The General Theory posits that " gravity " is the warping of space itself . Akin to a bowling ball sitting on a trampoline . If you roll a marble past the bowling ball it will be deflected like something would passing the Earth . Of course this is simplified but gives you a good idea to visualize it . As for FTL travel it is in the E = MC^2 equation . Sorry if it is past a 5 year - old to understand but that is it . Energy and mass are interchangeable . As you increase energy ( speed ) you increase mass . Mass is multiplied by a really big number ( speed of light squared ) . If you keep pushing it you find you need infinite energy to go the speed of light . Obviously there is not that much in the whole Universe .