I 'll give a good attempt . Without the theory of relativity , if a person moves at the speed of light " c " and observes a beam of light , the beam of light would look like a stationary particle of light . It was discovered , however that no matter how fast you move , light is always observed to move at the speed " c " . This is when Einstein had his one of his famous thought experiments . If relativity did not apply and a person was holding a mirror while riding a bicycle near the speed of light , he would would not see himself in the mirror immediately . However , because the speed of light is always " c " , he always would see himself in the mirror almost instantaneously . Through these contradictions , he found the answer . * Time and space * must morph to keep the speed of light " c " . If you were to race a light particle , moving near " c " and had a friend observe the finish line , the friend would say " wow , you were close , just right behind the light particle " . And then you would say " are you kidding ? The light particle raced ahead and beat me by a mile . " That 's because in your perspective , as you accelerated closer to the speed of light , the race track seemed to proportionally longer , preventing you from beating the particle of light and preventing you from reaching the speed of light . Also , you got heavier as you approached light speed , requiring you to have infinite amount of energy to reach " c " . Your friend recorded your race and the computer analysis did show that you got slimmer in the direction you were racing ( and returned to normal size once you stopped ) . Also , the tracked had weight sensors beneath it and it confirmed that you gained mass ( and again lost it once you stopped ) . Your camera recording your friend also showed him getting slimmer as you approached " c " . You and your friend checked your watches . They are now our of sync , because time slowed for you compared to your friend , in order to maintain " c " . You say you crossed the finish line at this time , your friend a different time ! You both have video footage to prove both ! Who is correct ? # # # # # # You both are ! As I said , space and time morphed to maintain " c " tldr ; the speed of light is constant , space and time are not . Space and time will morph to prevent you from reaching " c "