well , a transistor is like a light switch controlled by another light switch . seems kinda simple and pointless , but when you connect a ton of them together in specific patterns they can do interesting things . For Example : say you have a series of these special light switches and you decide that 2 of them will be " input " switches and 1 of them will be " output " switches and you wire them up so that if either of the inputs is flipped " on " then the output will end up being flipped " on " . it seems very basic , but that is a simple logic circuit called an OR gate . the trick is , your " output " switch can now be used to flip on the input for other circuits , and you can daisy chain these switches until you have a really complicated array of light switches on one end representing the input , and another really complicated array on the other end representing the output , and you can wire in all sorts of logic in the middle using lots and lots of light switches . what makes this more useful is when you stop thinking of your individual light switches as being simply " on " or " off " but instead think of them as " bits " in a binary number sequence . now the same sort of logic tricks you can do with the wiring can represent really big numbers just based on which of them are on or off . ( either ask me about numbering systems in other bases or just believe me that " on " " off " " on " " off " is another way of representing 5 ) addition is a good example of some logic you can do . because a series of on and off light switches represents a number , you can take 2 sets of switches , and arrange your switch wiring such that a 3rd set ends up flipping to a pattern representing the sum of the first 2 . it will be a lot of light switches and wire , but it will basically add 2 numbers . so then to make it more interesting , take your number adding switch setup , and your various other switch - logic setups , and wire the outputs so that they feed back into the inputs . this would cause confusing results if you wired them directly , so you arrange the whole setup into a cycle controlled by a clock . the clock flips a switch , and when it does it causes your input switches to be flipped by the output switches from the last run . great , now you have light switches flipping themselves 60 times a minute ! this is what computers do . they have millions of transistors flipping each other on and off in sequence to add numbers , move bits around or activate devices such as other circuits , and they have clocks which click billions of times a second . a 32 bit machine has 32 " switches " representing the input / output . the last element you really need to make a computer processor is somewhere other then your input switches to store things . that 's where ram and registers and cache and all those other forms of " storage " come in . they all basically do the same thing , they are huge grids of simple light switches lined up in nice chunks to represent an ordered list of things for the input switches to do , or empty place holders for the output switches to store patterns in . [ EDIT ] : If you are familiar with the game minecraft at all , this user : [ Salajapaju ] ( URL_0 ) has tons of really good videos because he basically builds the full ( non - simplified ) version of my example above using simple blocks inside minecraft . he makes a whole working computer .