I would say that it is pandemic as opposed to being epidemic , that is , it is n't just happening in NYC or Ferguson or Chicago . While the vast majority of police officers in every department are not guilty of brutality or even of looking the other way , it is , and has been , happening in isolated cases across the country . Further , it also seems to be indicative of police deference and entitlement . Little things like officers not following departmental protocols time and time again after reported incidents of the use of extreme force ( e.g. not getting / recording post - incident interviews , failing to collect evidence ) without action taken by the chief or a political system have led to people simply losing faith in the police . Many feel that the entitlement is so rampant that the officers ca n't be trusted as they once were . It goes deeper than this too . There is a very real and deeply seated distrust between non - whites ( and sympathetic / empathetic whites ) and the justice system . Exacerbated by a failed war on drugs and the still tender wounds of the civil rights movement . ( That 's my explanation of the Police side of the issue but , like everything , there are two sides here ) As mentioned above , ours is a generation born of several decades of political strife , or at least our privileged " first world problems " version of it . From Vietnam and the Civil Rights movement to Rodney King and Katrina , you could say that protest and civil disobedience is in our blood . This has led to a public refusal to capitulate to authority and , for many , the automatic assumption that those with power are disinterested in the common good or even actively opressive . Law enforcement agencies , as a result , feel they are now in an arms race of sorts . Additional firepower and more agressive tactics have been , they feel , necessitated by a progressively more uncooperative ( and often better armed ) public . This in turn reenforces the public 's notions of opression . ( That is my ELI5 of the situation , the rest is my personal opinion on it ) You will hear often ( in fact a couple comments here reference it ) that these incidents are so infrequent that they hardly deserve attention , the current furor being nothing more than the direct result of news media sensationalization . Worse , you will hear people arguing that Police are people too , they make mistakes and we have to be able to forgive and forget . These ideas are ignorant and ineffectual at best and dishonest and dangerous at worst . We hold our police officers up to be the beacons of justice in this country . Undoubtedly it is a high standard perhaps unachievable but law enforcement is the tool through which we shape a better more idealized society . I firmly believe that we are only ever as righteous as the least righteous amongst us . Police departments have a responsibility to weed out the offending officers . Instead they too often close ranks , look the other way or simply ignore the issue . There is an unfair level of distrust from the public but unfortunately that is not going to change over night . We are many and old grudges die hard , even ill - informed ones . If , however , Law Enforcement decides to take it upon themselves to address the public 's concerns we could arrive at a better level of safety and mutual respect within a couple decades at most . Yes it means being the bigger " person " but is n't that exactly what we should expect from our police departments ? TL ; DR Do n't bother getting into the issue if you do n't have time to read eight paragraphs . This is a complicated issue with no room for the lazy and uninformed .