OK so here 's my take Murdoch 's British empire has also * * admitted * * to paying police for private information ( which is illegal ) , paying hush money to people they hacked , hacked lots of famous people and common peoples phones including murdered school girl Milly Dowler , Royal aides to the Royal Family etc They have also been * * accused * * of hacking the phones of the family of 9/11 victims and that of soldiers killed in Iraq - actually up to 3000 people are thought to be possible victims ( this number relates to the number of people whose personal details were found in documents belonging to the people sent to Jail for phone hacking ) OK so we have established they are defiantly up to no good - but how high does the corruption go Well here are some big people to take a hit * * Arrested * * Rebekah Brooks - head of Murdoch 's empire for the whole of Britain Andy Coulson - was the editor of News of the World ( the paper responsible for the hacking ) whilst the hacking was taking place BUT he was later given a job as the director of communications for the GOVERNMENT and was a spokesperson for DAVID CAMERON the BRITISH PRIME MINISTER - it is thought that the close ties between Cameron and Coulson got a front page endorsement on News Corp. news papers saying we support Cameron for Prime Minister last election OK who else has taken a fall ? Well the top Police Officer in Britain and his no.2 have both had to step down . There are many more but you get the point - the corruption has landed many higher ups in hot water . So what does all this mean ? Well you have this corrupt all powerful media group who get themselves into the inner circle of politicians ( from all sides of politics ) in exchange for their support in elections , at least the last two British governments were openly backed by News Corps media empire . So the real problem is that we have these people who we know are crooks and liars , and they are getting important government jobs holding lots of sway over elective officials - which has helped them get away with allot , for example blocking investigations into their illegal activity ( that 's right News of the World have recently been found to actively obstruct activation into their illegal activity ) . So that 's pretty bad for Britain , what about the rest of the World ? Well , so far their are a few investigations underway by the FBI and such into Murdoch 's empire in the US , but nothing of the same scope as the UK . But Murdoch owns Fox News as you may be aware , and given their general bias many have suggested what is going on in Britain is likely to be going on in America also . The phone hacking AND the closeness of these crooks and liars to US politicians . hope that helps