After the 9/11 attacks , everyone is on - board to kill whoever was responsible for the attacks . We invade Afghanistan in late 2001 . The initial invasion is an unprecedented success . American Special Forces and CIA operatives were able to align with the Northern Alliance to knock out the Taliban in a few months . The neoconservatives in government want to invade Iraq to pursue [ a vision of a new age of Pax Americana ] ( URL_1 ) . Iraq is located next to Iran and Syria . With Afghanistan invaded , the planners thought that we 'd " bring freedom " to the ME and surround Iran . America would own the most volatile areas of the ME , and would bring forced peace upon the region . At least , that was the plan . A pretext for war against Iraq was made . This was not a failure of intelligence , as most have believed . There was a deliberate effort to take advantage of the post-9/11 anger to invade Iraq . There was the [ Manning Memo ] ( URL_9 ) , which shows that George W. Bush planned to invade Iraq in March 2003 regardless of the U.N. inspectors , and more shockingly , GWB proposed sending a U-2 over Iraq to get shot down and provoke a war . The powers that be decided to claim that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction . They primarily accused Iraq of having chemical weapons . It is a known fact that Iraq was given chemical weapons by America to use against Iran during their war in the 1980s . However , the U.S. claimed that the Iraqis were making new chemical weapons . Moreover , the U.S. also claimed that Iraq tried to manufacture nuclear weapons . Colin Powell infamously got before the U.N. and testified that Iraq had centrifuge tubes used to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons . [ It turns out later that the tubes were used to make conventional rockets ] ( URL_0 ) . Powell also claimed that Iraq had a biological weapons program based upon the testimony of an informant known as [ Curveball ] ( URL_6 ) . [ Curveball was later the target of a CIA burn notice as he was a liar ] ( URL_5 ) . Intelligence was also provided that Iraq tried to buy uranium ore from Niger . However , those [ documents were forgeries ] ( URL_4 ) . Nevertheless , President Bush uttered the infamous [ sixteen words ] ( URL_8 ) at the 2003 State of the Union Address claiming that Iraq had tried to obtain uranium . Joe Wilson , an American diplomat who claimed that this was a forgery , had his [ CIA - agent wife outed ] ( URL_7 ) . In any event , we were off to war . Eric Shinseki said that we needed " hundreds of thousands " of soldiers to invade Iraq and " win the peace . " Paul Wolfowitz and Donald Rumsfeld dismissed that notion . They were obsessed with a notion of violence of action wherein American technology would eliminate the fog of war , and allow the invasion of Iraq to success with as few was fifty thousand American soldiers . Under Rumsfeld 's aegis , we got rid of artillery to rely upon " air artillery"—sustained precision airstrikes were thought to be an adequate replacement for relatively slow - moving artillery . ( The U.S. later has a crash program to buy M777 artillery pieces because it turns out that artillery is still king . ) We invade Iraq . Modern maneuver warfare allows American armed forces to take over Iraq at unprecedented speed . We declare victory very quickly . However , there is no plan to win the peace . We have no idea how to secure the population . Wolfowitz & Co sent in Paul Bremer to run the country . Bremer decides to disband the Iraqi police force and military . He also decides to de - Baathify the government . Tens of thousands of newly - unemployed and disgruntled men with heavy weapons are left on the streets . The civilians quickly turn against America as we can not protect them from thugs . Foreign fighters with Iranian support flood to Iraq to fight against Americans , killing many civilians in the process . Suicide bombings and mass attacks are commonplace as we have Shiites and Sunnis trying to kill each other . Death squads are formed . Beheadings are commonplace . In 2007 , we turn a corner . Not only do we have the Surge of tens of thousands of American military men to double - down on a failing war , we also have the Iraqis revolting against foreign fighters . Significantly , Sunni rebels are sick and tired of foreign fighters slaughtering Iraqis , so the Sunnis join with American forces . There are also drones that wipe out hundreds , if not thousands , of insurgent fighters . General Petraeus and McChrystal change American strategy into counterinsurgency to win the hearts and minds of the Iraq people . Against all odds , the war in Iraq turns a corner . In 2008 , we enter in a [ status of forces agreement with Iraq ] ( URL_2 ) and we agreed to leave by 2011 . Obama takes over as President in 2009 , and happily pulls troops out accordingly . Everyone believes that Iraq can protect itself . It is left with lots of weapons and training . However , [ Iraq breaks out in a civil war ] ( URL_3 ) . The Shia are the majority population in Iraq , and the minority Sunnis , who had been the favored guys under Saddam Hussein ( who was Sunni ) , reject the Iraqi government . Sunnis attack Shias . Syria falls apart . Daesh gains power , and recruits many disgruntled Baath military leaders who were kicked out by Paul Bremer . TL;DR : American hubris leads to a decade - long misadventure in the Middle East .