There is a lot of confusion with these terms , so let me give some very simple definitions to show how they are different : Feudalism - The means of production ( capital , usually land in this case ) are controlled by an aristocracy who are born into their social class and inherit capital from their parents . Laborers are serfs who have no control over capital and usually no political power . Capitalism - The means of production is controlled by the bourgeois , who can buy / sell / exchange their capital for other capital and goods . Laborers are the proletariat who sell their labor in exchange for money which they can use to buy capital and goods . Socialism - This is where things get hazy . In socialism the means of production are controlled by the state but owned by the people . What makes things tricky is that , in socialism , everyone has ownership of the means of production , so there are no proletariat and no bourgeois anymore , but there is still money and the exchange of labor for money . Socialism has never really existed . Communism - Marx himself never defined communism , but famously said that in communism a man could fish in the morning , write in the afternoon , and hunt in the evening . The idea is that there is a post - scarcity society . In other words , there is so much wealth that no one * * needs * * to work , but can choose to work whenever they want to get whatever they want . The closest thing to communism is what you see on Star Trek , esp . TNG . Marxism - This is a very strange term that really was created in the past 100 years to define people who believed in the ideal of communism . However , I think at its core everyone believes in communism -- just that right wingers think it is unnatural / impractical / impossible , which it honestly is at our current level of social and technological development . There 's a reason that Star Trek 's socio - economic and political structures were never controversial or attacked as communism -- the idea of no one ever needing to work appeals to nature 's desire for entropy .