Anarchism does n't mean no rules . It means no hierarchy . I do n't know of a serious political philosophy that advocates no rules . At the moment , our rules come from our leaders . In a totalitarian society , it 's as simple as that . In a democratic one like America , the leaders need to pay some heed to the citizens and motivated citizens are able to influence those rules to an extent but the extent is very limited . Be wary of anyone who maintains America is a police state or that it is a democratic republic rather than a democracy . The former has no clue about what they are talking about and the latter is resting on a semantic quibble . Anarchists ( and Libertarians in the American sense ) see the state as a centre of power where it is concentrated in the hands of a few . Sure , you could go to college , join some young Labor / Republican / Democrat / Liberal group , become a lawyer and get on track to join this elite from the beginning but much of your ability to do this is determined by luck . More so than most people recognise . And even if you succeed , it still does n't solve the problem of power being concentrated in the hands of people at the centre of the state 's structure . Until Rothbard and some other American thinkers became prominent last century , the term Libertarian was more akin to what we think of as anarchist today . That is why I make the distinction of American - style libertarians . Those libertarians and the anarchists agree that the state is mostly malevolent but after that , they part ways . Libertarians feel the single best improvement is the minimisation of the state and things will all be great after that . Anarchists are just as derisive of the state but feel there are other hierarchies that are just as , if not more , detrimental than the state . Religious authorities and corporations for example . This is not to say anarchists are * necessarily * atheist or anti - business . Tolstoy was a devout Christian and espoused a style of anarchism that thrived while he was alive . The point is that the religious authority should n't be vested in a pope or caliph and should look more like the Quakers for example . Also , the rewards of business should n't accrue to a shareholder / boss class . Profits should be shared by the producers of goods and services . Another difference is with the view of land ownership . Libertarians feel land is just another kind of property and almost all of it should be held in private hands . Most anarchists feel land is the main type of property that must not be held privately . All land is stolen from someone , or bought from someone who stole it or bought from someone who may not have stolen it but acquired it without work via inheritance . Anarchists feel all property should have rents paid back to the community . Georgists for example believe these rents should constitute the only type of tax allowed in a Georgist community . A general principle is that power should devolve to the lowest possible organisational level . This is one of the stated objectives of the EU but they do n't prioritise it as highly as anarchists . If I want to smoke weed , it should be for me to decide whether I will or not . On the other hand , the lights in my street are what economists call a public good and so it would n't be in my self - interest to set them all up and maintain them myself . In that case , that task would fall to the neighbourhood council . There might only be a few hundred people covered by that council 's borders so I could have real influence in its decisions without quitting my day job and becoming part of a dedicated political class . That council might also coordinate the neighbourhood 's creche , meals for the housebound and so on . The next neighbourhood over might be overwhelmingly from a particular immigrant community and might come to a consensus to conduct its business in that group ' language . However , they might be interested in a football stadium , high school or some other infrastructure that would be too big for a neighbourhood collective to handle on its own . So a group of neighbourhoods who wish to remain distinct but feel they can work together would build confederations to handle that sort of thing . Rinse and repeat and you could have Universities or Large Hadron Colliders .