This is actually a trick question , as according to most modern historians , the Roman Empire * did n't * ' collapse . ' The traditional date given for said event is 476 C.E. , when the ' last ' " real " Roman Emperor was deposed by his Master of Horse , the ' barbarian ' Odoacer . Notice the large number of quotations I had to use in that sentence . The truth is that this date is really rather arbitrary , as are many of the widely - memorized dates in popular history . Basically , you have an Emperor , Romulus Augustulus ( a pejorative term meaning ' the little Augustus ' ) , ostensibly being forced out of his place at the head of the government of Rome by his second - in - command , Odoacer , a man of German descent . The truth was that Odoacer had really been in control all along . You see , the Master of Horse was a position that at the end of the Empire -- the last century , or so -- was used by strong - men to seize power without actually holding the dangerous office of emperor . In fact , the last dozen or so emperors are now commonly referred to as the ' puppet emperors ' for just this reason : Odoacer and his predecessors did the heavy lifting behind the scenes while some patsy stood in the spotlight . Clearly Odoacer just tired of the charade in 476 when he deposed Augustulus and took sole power , and my guess is that it was just easier to have done with it . Now , since Odoacer had really been in power all along , you may wonder why 476 is such an important date in Roman history . Well , the truth is that it was n't . If you were a Roman at the time , you probably would n't have cared all that much , except for if you were directly affected -- i.e. , you were a vehement and vocal supporter of Augustulus . So why do history books emphasize this date so much if it does n't matter ? That 's because it 's convenient . Most people learn this date in high school from a book that has thousands of others like it . It 's dumbed - down , simplistic history made for teenagers who do n't really care all that much . As for the true story , as always in history the answer is extremely complex . There are multiple , sometimes - conflicting theories about the ' fall ' of the Empire , but most of them agree on one thing : the Roman Empire lasted for centuries after the traditional 476 fall , and instead of ceasing to exist it * * transitioned * * into a different stage . In this way it was like the transition from Monarchy to Republic , or Republic to Empire , except the process was perhaps more subtle . One theory emphasizes that the Roman Empire that ' collapsed ' with Augustulus was really only * half * of the Roman Empire . Hundreds of years earlier , the Empire had been divided into two administrative sections ( and then four , and then back to two ) , the East and the West . The part which ' fell ' was the West , with its official capital at Trier , not Rome . The East , with its capital at Constantinople -- formerly called Byzantium -- was hardly affected by the ' crisis ' in the West , probably because it was so filthy rich that it could ( and did ) pay off all its violent neighbors . This half of the Empire is in modern times called the " Byzantine " Empire for a number of reasons , but partly because it makes the whole " when did Rome fall " issue simpler . In fact , though , the " Byzantines " continued in every way to be the Eastern Roman Empire for another thousand years until the Ottoman Turks finally conquered them in 1453 . They even considered themselves Romans , and their leader was considered to be the Roman Emperor . So this is one strong theory about the ' fall ' of the Roman Empire . Another theory is that the Roman Empire lived on ' under new management ' under the guiding hand of Odoacer and his peers and successors . The truth of the matter is that very little of the existing structure of governance was actually changed ; the Germans who did take new roles knew the system worked , and actually stood in awe of it . They did n't want to * destroy * Rome , they wanted to * be * Romans . It was such a good system , why not ? So there is a mountain of evidence for this theory , too . Another theory is that the Roman Empire lived on in the Catholic Church . It 's a bit less well - founded , but the Church and the Empire were inexorably tied together after Constantine and perhaps a little before that . In fact , the Church 's organizational system is 100 % based on Roman organization : ' diocese ' is an Anglicization of a Latin word that meant something very similar . There are others , too . Some historians believe that the Arabs were the successors to the Romans , as they really absorbed Roman learning within a very short time and expanded upon it . I do n't know if this makes sense within the context of " the Empire did n't actually fall , " though . So , now you know that the Empire did n't actually ' fall . ' To answer you original question , which could be better phrased as " Why was the Western Roman Empire forced to transition in the 5th century ? , " the truth is again , complicated . But I 'll cover the broad strokes . A huge contributing factor was the one you probably already know : the ' barbarians . ' However , the Germanic peoples who are nearly always depicted as the enemies of everything Roman were definitely not actually that . In fact , they were very envious of Roman prosperity , and many times their incursions into Roman territory were the result of Roman racism interfering with good foreign policy . For instance , one of the largest Visigoth ' invasions ' was due to the bungling of a certain Roman aristocrat who was overseeing a huge settlement of Visigoths in unused Roman territory , but allowed conditions to get so bad that there was nothing for the Germans to do but attack . More than envy , though , what was pushing the Germanic tribes into Roman territory was fear : the Huns were coming . The terrible Huns of legend were a force to be reckoned with : according to stories from the time the Huns were expert horsemen -- supposedly , men , women , and children would stay on horseback all day , not even dismounting to eat and sleep . As these crazed military geniuses ravaged northeastern Europe , the Germanic tribes on the borders of Rome slowly became more and more exposed until they had to encroach on Roman borders . Faced with certain death from the Huns , they preferred the promise of relative safety in Roman borders . It was not unusual for Romans to allow the various tribes to settle in unused Roman land . Unfortunately , as I have said , they usually treated them as second class citizens , and many costly revolts resulted . Because these began within Roman borders , the Empire was particularly exposed to danger , and there was a great deal of devastation in the West -- including the sack of Rome itself in 410 . The East largely escaped unscathed using the incredibly - effective method of paying exorbitant amounts of money to their would - be attackers to keep themselves safe . You see , the West could not afford such luxuries , as the East contained the richest provinces -- most notably the ' bread - basket ' of the old Empire , Egypt -- where the West was mostly a group of blood - suckers by comparison . So the West had to take its beatings . This was a major contributing factor to the transformation of the West from ' late Roman Empire ' to ' post - Roman era . ' A second contributing factor is the devaluing of the Roman currency . To be a popular -- not to mention breathing -- emperor , one had to keep the Army happy , above all else . To reward the army on a job well done , one emperor decided it would be nice to raise their pay . As such , he increased each soldier 's pay from something like 200 denarii a month to 350 denarii a month . What a deal for the army , right ? Well yes , but there was a catch . The Roman government , by law , operated on a balanced budget . Because there was no extra billion denarii sitting around in the budget , this change was basically untenable except for one ingenious and disastrous innovation : melting down the denarii and adding a very amount of a common metal to increase the number of coins without adding more silver . That way , the army got paid more but no more money was actually needed than what they already had . The soldiers get more money , the emperor gets their loyalty , and the budget is balanced -- everybody wins , right ? Well , except that the Romans did n't understand modern economics very well . As the coins were melted down , again and again over decades , there was less and less silver per coin . This effect was exacerbated by subsequent emperor 's own increases to the army 's pay . As such , within a century or so the denarius was valued so little that people just refused to use it . The problem was that this USED to be how everyone was paid by the government and it was fine , but now they got paid the same or a little more and it was worthless . Slowly but surely , the * entire system * broke down , and the denarius was basically scrap metal . People used gold coins when they could -- these had not been devalued -- but they were worth so much that they generally could n't be used for everyday purchases . This was a problem that plagued the Empire for decades , and eventually forced the entire Empire to turn back the clock and start trading * * in kind**--using livestock , grains , etc . as currency . It was mayhem . This weakened the Empire considerably , especially in regard to its ability to pay its all - important army -- not to mention the terrified tribes on its borders . Those are easily the two most important factors in the ' collapse ' of the Empire . There are at least a dozen more , but they require a bit of background knowledge and it took me a half hour to write all of this , so I hope this will suffice .