Insider trading , which was her crime , is buying or selling stock based on " inside information . " Inside information is any information that is n't available to the public . Once information is public , the general public can buy or sell stocks based on that information . Buying or selling stock based on inside information allows you to get ahead of the public . Specifically : - Martha Stewart owned shares of a drug company called ImClone . - Martha Stewart was friends with the CEO ( or at least some sort of important person in the company ) . - Drug companies like ImClone have to get FDA approval before putting drugs on the market . - FDA approval involves tons of tests and experiments and so forth to ensure that a drug is generally safe for the public . - If a new drug gets FDA approval , it can be sold and the drug company can make tons of money . - If a new drug does * not * get FDA approval , suddenly the drug company has lots tons of money in research and development for a drug that they ca n't sell . - ImClone officers were notified that the FDA was going to deny approval for a new drug . This was very bad news for the company . They found this out before the FDA made this information public . Hence , the fact that the drug would n't be approved became " inside information . " - Once the general public knew that the FDA would n't approve the new drug , many people would sell ImClone stocks because the company lost out on tons of potential profits . This would cause the stock to be worth less money . - Someone at ImClone told Martha Stewart the inside information about the FDA denying approval for the drug , before the general public knew . Martha Stewart then had inside information . - Martha Stewart sold her ImClone stock before this information became public , so that she could " cash out " of ImClone stock at a higher value than she would have if she sold after the information became public . - Hence , Martha Stewart profited from the inside information , which is illegal .