Everybody wants to have a bigger or cooler toy ( or a house or car ) . The problem is people do n't make enough money to buy the things they REALLY want - like the shiny new thing that kid in class has . BUT we still want it really bad so we borrow some money ( from the bank ) . The bank is very happy because they make us pay back a lot more than we borrowed . That money goes into their pockets and the spend money on toys . Back at home , thanks to the bank I can buy that new toy I wanted ! Lots of other people are happy too because we stood in line all night and got the first one off the shelf . There are a lot of people who want that toy and the bank is happy to help . The big toy company gets really busy and and needs to hire more workers . There are less workers though because all the toy companies are making lots of similar toys so all the workers think hey , they need me so I can ask for more money . The company pays them more money which is exciting because that means MORE TOYS ! The boss at the big toy company sees all the people lining up for their toys and thinks about the fact he now has to pay people more . He thinks " Hey , instead of selling these for $ 1 , I bet people will still buy them if they 're $ 1.09 . " People are making more money so the higher price is n't a big deal and the company makes more money . On and on it goes - it 's not just toys but lots of things we buy more and more of . Now , if prices go up too much , everyone will stop buying things becuase they wo n't have the money ( the bank makes it really expensive to borrow money because everyone needs it and they can raise the price ) . If it gets really serious , companies sell less stuff , they needs less people and it spirals downward and eventually stop and stay the same for a while until people start to get jobs again and get more money . Not all the people stop buying toys though . There are people who run the companies that still make lots of money and want to spend it on the best toys in the world . When people are n't buying a lot of toys , to make more money they try to save money . They do this by making things in other countries whee people do n't have to be paid or treated well . They toss chemicals into the lake because it 's cheaper than doing it legally or safely . This lets them sell things for way less money and the people are just happy to be able to buy SOMETHING even if they have no money and they buy that new cheap stuff ( to get that feeling of a new toy ) . The big bosses get to make more money even with lower prices . When things have hit rock bottom in the past , all the governments and the companies said there was n't enough money to solve the problem and get back to the good old days . But then , there were big wars that needed lots of guns and bullets and tanks and planes and bridges and new technology and soldiers and engineers and everybody . All of a sudden the government finds a lot of money ( borrowed from the bank of course ) and everyone has money to spend on toys again . Once that momentum starts ( it always starts when we want more stuff again ) , it goes right back the beginning and inflation starts again . But if prices of everything go up just enough we can all try and get the next cool toy that comes along ( and we 'll pay the bank later ) . We do sort of depend on the banks to make sure everyone has the money they need to buy all the cool toys but maybe they 're nice people .