Bitcoins are like gold coins , except instead of being something that you can hold in your hand , a bitcoin is something that a computer thinks about and remembers . If you have one bitcoin , it 's because your computer is remembering that you have one bitcoin . If you give some gold coins to someone in exchange for a truckload of Cheetos , he will have the gold coin and you will have permanently orange fingers . If you want give some bitcoins to someone in exchange for a truckload of Cheetos , you have to tell your computer to stop remembering that those bitcoins are yours , and to start remembering that those bitcoins are now his , * and * tell * his * computer to start remembering that those bitcoins are now his . Now it would be pretty easy to cheat and tell his computer to start remembering that those bitcoins are his but tell your computer to * keep * remembering that those bitcoins were yours . Then you could spend your bitcoins again and again by just telling your computer to cheat . If everyone cheated in this way , bitcoins would be worth nothing because everyone could have as many as they wanted , so no one would be willing to trade them for anything that was actually valuable . With gold coins , you ca n't cheat in this way , because once you give the coins to someone else , you do n't control them anymore , and you certainly ca n't make extra copies of gold coins just by making a wish ! To solve the problem of cheating , anyone who wants to use bitcoins has to promise to tell * everyone * about * every * time someone trades bitcoins for something else . Basically , your computer is shouting out to all the other computers , " Hey ! I just sent these bitcoins to Dave , so they 're not mine anymore ! " Now that all the other computers know which bitcoins belong to whom , if you tried to cheat and spend those same bitcoins again , all the other computers would say , " Hey ! You ca n't do that ! You spent those already and they belong to Dave ! " This system lets bitcoins work in ways similar to gold coins , but with some different advantages and disadvantages . Gold coins must be dug out of the ground as gold and turn into coins . Bitcoins are brought into existence by computers doing complex math problems that take a really , really long time to solve . When a computer solves one of these problems , that computer is rewarded with some new bitcoins which the owner of the computer may then spend . The rules that the founders of the bitcoin system wrote when they thought of the idea of bitcoins make it so that only a certain number of bitcoins can ever exist .