Suppose Alice wants to send coins to her friend Bob . Alice 's computer sends out a message to the peer - to - peer Bitcoin network saying , " I , Alice , am sending 0.5 Bitcoins to Bob . " The message is signed to prove that Alice actually approved the transaction and that it 's not being forged by someone else . After a while , Michael the Bitcoin miner gets Alice 's message . He collects Alice 's transaction and any others he 's seen recently into a single " block " of transactions . Michael also adds an extra transaction to the block which creates 50 BTC from nowhere and adds them to his account ( this is Michael 's reward for processing transactions ) . Now , to get the block recorded ( and receive his 50 BTC ) , Michael must also find a magic number that is compatible with the block . The only way to do this is to try numbers at random until he finds one that fits , which takes a very long time . Once Michael has the right number , he can publish the finished block to the rest of the network . Now , about security : Part of the security of Bitcoin is based on the consensus of Bitcoin clients . Even if someone publishs a finished block , other clients will ignore it if it contains something invalid ( such as if they include a transaction with the wrong signature or try to generate more than 50 BTC for themselves ) . This is similar to how paper currency works -- I can write " $ 100 " on a green piece of paper , but I ca n't spend it because nobody would agree that I actually have $ 100 . There 's another way of cheating called a " double spending attack , " in which someone tries to rewrite history to let them spend the same Bitcoins twice . This does n't work because Bitcoin clients agree to accept whichever version of history has the most blocks in it . Suppose Eve made a transaction an hour ago , so 5 blocks have been generated since the one with her transaction . Eve wants to take back that transaction , so she pretends the last 6 blocks never happened and starts generating blocks from there . However , Eve 's version of history starts out 6 blocks shorter than the original , so everyone will stay with the original version until Eve 's version catches up and becomes longer . For Eve to catch up to the original history , she has to generate blocks faster than all the honest miners combined , which would require the combined computational power of 4 or 5 of the world 's fastest supercomputers . Since double spending takes so much computer power , it 's basically impossible to do .