Pretend that linux , windows , and mac are * * toy lego cars * * . The * * windows car * * comes with all the pieces you need , and a standard set of instructions . It 's pretty easy to put together , does n't cost too much , and is really popular ( you can easily get someone else to make a windows car for you ) . Because it is so popular , all the additions you can add on to your car like a laser cannon or bigger wheels fit right out of the box . Every lego set is made to work with the windows car . What you ca n't really change though is the main engine of the lego car . It gets made at the windows factory and you 're not allowed to open that lego piece up . Its workmanship is somewhat questionable , but it works okay and does most everything you want . The * * mac car * * gets sent to you already made from the factory using its own special legos . It looks really sweet and is super easy and fun to drive . It does n't do everything you want , but everything it does do it does really well . It 's somewhat popular , so a lot of the addons guys will make an addon using the special mac legos too . You ca n't change the engine and a bunch of other things , so you better hope it already works like you want it too ( but there is a good chance that it does ) . All the mac addons work together easily without hardly any extra work . The * * linux car * * is what all the guys that are really good at legos use because you can change everything . Even the engine is made up of more tiny legos . Everyone that makes linux cars shares parts and instructions for free , so you do n't have to pay for very much . But a lot of the addons come with " some assembly required " and sometimes you have to use special connector blocks because it uses every kind of lego there is . But you can make the exact car you want , and chances are somebody else already figured out how so you just have to do a little extra work to get that super sweet car . If something goes wrong , you better understand something about legos because everyone 's linux car is a little different so the mechanics might not know just how to help you . Also some of the funnest addons are only built to fit on the windows car so you have to do a lot of work to fit it on your linux car . There are tons of other ways to build cars which usually have a really good reason you might need to build a car that way . Maybe you want to build fast cars , or reliable cars , or small cars , or big cars , or a whole fleet of cars that work together . None of these other cars ( aka operating systems ) are as popular as the big three . edit : spelling / grammar edit2 : " the mechanics might not know just how to help you " line is trying to imply that you are going to have to put a little work in yourself to get things working right , or get someone else to do it for you . This does not mean that linux people ca n't help fix your problem , just that it is not straightforward . edit3 : I am biased against Windows , so I tried to keep as much of that out of my answer as possible .