With only $ 1000 , you 're better off " investing " , like you said , and not " trading " like what ixnayhombre is talking about . Investing is about picking undervalued and/or growing companies and holding them for a while . Trading is going in and out of stocks quickly based off things like news , gut feeling , and price movement . Comissions will eat you alive if you trade , as opposed to longer term investing . There are several aspects to " getting started in investing in stocks " . I 'll break it down into two main parts : learning and doing . * * Learning ( probably the harder , but more important , part ) * * * READ . SERIOUSLY , READ A TON . Start with books . Go to your library 's website , see what they have in the business / investing section . Then go to amazon and see if other people think the books are any good . I personally started with One Up on Wall Street by Peter Lynch , How to Make Money in Stocks by William O'Neill , and The Intelligent Investor by Benjamin Graham ( which is a little dense compared to the other two ) . These are all pretty old books ( pre - Great Recession ) so it might be a good idea to look around for more recent ones . * DO YOUR OWN HOMEWORK . Take stock tips ( e.g. your mother 's colleague 's secretary telling you , " Buy ESLR , Evergreen Solar ! ! ! Solar power is the future ! ! ! " ) with a very small grain of salt . Unless they lay out their step by step research process for you , you have no idea how they arrived at their conclusion . Apart from books , blogs and websites can be a great learning resource ( like Motley Fool , Seeking Alpha , Frank Voisin ) , but * * always do your own research and make your own conclusions * * . I would also strongly advise you to learn accounting if you do n't already know it . It is impossible to be a good investor if you do n't know accounting and do n't know how to read a company 's financial statements . * * Doing ( the easier part ) * * * Open a brokerage account . I would recommend Tradeking or Zecco . Their comissions are some of the lowest , at about $ 5 a trade . I 've used both and customer service is fantastic . However , you may not get some of the fancier investment tools that a more expensive broker like ETrade might offer . Then again , you are a beginning investor and they probably are n't that useful to you anyways . * Buy stocks that you think are undervalued and/or have the potential to grow . Sell stocks that no longer have that potential . * A somewhat glorified example : Apple . Releases the iPhone in June 2007 . Stock prices goes all the way up to $ 200 in the next few months ( after having been at sub $ 15 5 years ago ) . Then , because of the financial crisis , people panic sell and Apple 's stock price drops to $ 90 . Do you really think Apple 's growth slowed down so much ( after releasing the groundbreaking iPhone ) to warrant a 55 % plummet in Apple 's stock price ? No , Apple still had lots of growth potential with the iPhone and it was undervalued . I say glorified because hindsight is 20 - 20 , and one probably would n't have timed the bottom in Apple 's stock price exactly * Do n't put all your eggs in one basket : diversify , and put your money in several different stocks . * Make a trade journal : write down why you bought a stock when you buy it , and why you sold a stock when you sell it . Many professional investors and traders I know do this because it is the best way to learn from your mistakes . Like daroons said , you need a lot of luck when you are just starting out , so expect to lose some money . But after having developed good research habits for a while and gaining experience in the markets , you 'll get better . Hope that helps ( maybe not exactly for a five year old ... ) . I 'm currently studying to work in finance and have investing experience so feel free to ask any questions .