Because it exploded in everyone 's face a couple of time . This is the story of the most recent time . After WWII , the victorious allies got together to fix the financial system that had fallen apart during the Great Depression , during a conference known as " Bretton Woods . " A big problem during the depression was competitive devaluing , meaning basically countries that were struggling economically would make their currency worth less which made their exports cheaper compared to other countries and would hopefully increase growth . Countries did this back and forth to each other for years , creating lots of instability . The US and UK set out to fix this . They decided to have exchange rates set firmly so states could n't change them . All other currencies were " pegged " to the US dollar , and the US dollar was set at $ 35 / ounce of gold . This was good for a while . But over time the " real " value of currencies changed while their set value , in relation to the dollar and gold , did not . And every time it was decided that a currency needed to adjust its value , a political shitshow ensued with laborers and businesses and governments and investors all clamoring to adjust or not adjust depending on their interests . The watershed moment came in 1971 . At some point , the US government realized " hey , with the dollar set at $ 35 / ounce of gold , if we just print lots and lots of dollar bills , we can make free money without consequences ! " The US used this to fund the Vietnam war , the " Great Society " and to buy up foreign corporations and holdings . Other countries were understandably upset by this , thought the US dollar was overvalued , and wanted the US to devalue the dollar . The US said no . The trade imbalance between the US and other nations grew . Eventually Germany said " fuck it " and floated their currency , meaning they unpegged it from the dollar and let markets decide its value . This immediately fixed the imbalance between the US and Germany . Japan then did the same . Speculators , knowing the dollar was overvalued and expecting a devaluation , began trading in their dollars for gold specie , quickly draining the US gold reserves and risking exhausting them which would deprived the dollar of all its value . Instead of let this happen , the US floated the dollar as well , fixing the imbalance . So we do n't have a worldwide or US Gold standard now because it was too inflexible , creating hyperpartisan debates and national rivalries over every little currency issue . Everyone decided it was too much trouble and impartial markets would adjust more efficiently and would better keep states honest . This informal market consensus persists today , and while gold could be useful to stabilize and retain our currencies value , other states could just retaliate with their own adjustments . That 's a Pandora 's box we do n't want to open again .