It pretty much boils down to debt and jobs . Houses cost a lot of money -- more than most people could ever afford to just save up and pay cash . So most of the time , somebody borrows all that money from a bank so they can live in the house and pays the bank every month over 30 years or so plus interest . The bank wants to be sure it 's going to get its money back , so they ask for a lot of paperwork from the person asking for a loan so they can prove they have a good job , make enough money , and are responsible enough to pay their bills on time and will take care of the house . But eventually , things started to fall apart . The bank you got a loan from did n't really want to wait 30 years to get their money back , so they sold your loan to somebody else . Your bill still has your bank 's logo on it , they still handle the paperwork , but your monthly payments are now going to somebody else . After a while , this meant that banks were n't as careful when lending money as they used to be -- if you ca n't make your house payments , it 's not their problem anymore . They make their money off of you in the beginning , and sell off the loan . You 're someone else 's problem now . So it gets easier and easier to get a mortgage . People go nuts , buying houses left and right . People start to make piles of money , selling a house they bought for $ 100,000 five years ago to somebody for $ 200,000 . And then they go buy another house and figure some new paint and a bit of yardwork will make them even more money . Heck ! Let 's buy two houses ! House prices keep going up up up up up . Banks are n't just selling mortgages to other institutions now , they 're making deals on top of them too , selling " insurance " to other big bankers in case somebody stops paying their bills . Eventually , people could n't pay their bills , and the whole mess came tumbling down . Banks failed , others could n't afford to lend any more money so other businesses had to shut down because they could n't get loans any more . So people lose their jobs , and now even more people ca n't pay their bills . Many of these people are stuck in houses they " bought " for $ 300,000 but it was never really worth more than $ 100,000 . House prices go down , down , down . And now that so many people are broke , they ca n't afford to buy toys and gadgets and cars like they used to . . . so the companies making those things start to go under or have to shrink and cut more jobs . . . which makes more people broke and unable to afford stuff . . . so more jobs cut . . . on and on and on . That 's where we are right now .