There are only two powerful parties in the US , for two related reasons . First , in national elections , the states in the US are " winner take all " . If you win a state 's election and you get 55 % of the votes , you get all of that state 's votes , and not just 55 % of them . This makes it very easy to have one or two strong parties , but makes it very difficult to have three strong parties . A strong third party would not be able to become important just by winning a lot of votes in a lot of states . Winning 30 % of the vote in every state but coming in second or third would be less effective than winning 51 % of the vote in the smallest state . The other reason is that both of these parties agree on a lot of things and are able to argue against anyone who does n't believe in what the Democratic and Republican parties agree on . The reason they are treated as if they are very different on TV and in the newspapers is because of " partisan politics " . " Partisan " means " supporter " . In partisan politics , " winning " is often the most important thing . It 's often more important than an agenda , or whatever reason you wanted to " win " for in the first place . Partisan Democrats and partisan Republicans talk about one another as if they were almost always wrong , and sometimes as if they were downright evil . Partisan politics is like turning politics into sports . One team will win , either " your team " or " the other team " . In American football , it does n't matter if you agree that the opponent 's quarterback is a very good person who plays the game well , you still want your team to win . One result of this is that in the news , politics is usually covered by telling you who 's " winning " opinion polls , or who 's probably going to win the election , rather than letting you know what each person stands for and letting you decide between them . This is often called " horse race politics " , because it covers who 's coming out ahead rather than what anyone actually wants to accomplish once they win an election . As far as what the Democrats and Republicans agree on , quite honestly , it 's most things ! Most Republicans and Democrats believe that capitalism is very important , that " real " campaign finance reform is bad ( campaign finance reform would mean that businesses would be able to give less money to politicians to run for office ) , that whatever the government does about the economy should result in less unemployment and less inflation ( the problem is that sometimes what you do to " fix " one hurts the other ) , that we should lower crime , and in basic freedom . How they differ is often not what they believe in but what they believe is the best way to make it happen .