There are only two main parties because the voting system does n't encourage sharing . Imagine that you 're in a class with 10 people total , and the class has to decide as a whole what to eat for snacktime for the school year : ice cream , cotton candy , or carrots . Let 's say that 4 kids like carrots , and 6 kids like sweets ( 3 like ice cream , 3 like cotton candy ) . Even though more people like sweets than carrots , if everyone votes for their preference , carrots will win because more people chose it than any other option . The only way for a sweet thing to be chosen is for people to change how they would like to vote to keep from getting stuck with carrots . This explains how people associate with one party as well - since there are only two options to choose from ( sweet things or healthy things ) , everyone has to pick which one is more like what they prefer and stick with that one . Some people may not like carrots very much but they prefer to eat healthy foods over sweet foods , so they will vote for carrots just to keep sweet things from winning . It 's not * ideal * for them to have carrots , but it 's better than the alternative . Some people may like something sweet and healthy - like grapes or strawberries or cantaloupe - and so they 're stuck in the middle . Whichever way they vote , they do n't quite get what they want , but they never gain any traction on their own . Now , in this situation , both parties agree on certain things . Everybody wants to eat * something * for snacktime , and everybody has particular reasons for choosing what they want to eat . Both people can make very good arguments for why their snack is better than the other snack , and some people will get very angry about whose snack is better - they might even start making fun of the other kids for liking the " wrong " snack ! This is because snacktime is very important in this class , and some people like making very important decisions . It 's a little hard to describe the parties with snacks , but I 'd like to call the Republicans the " sweets " and the Democrats the " healthies . " Democrats like to make sure that everyone is healthy and strong so that they can be the kids that they should be , without any extra weight holding them down - this should ideally keep everyone close to the same level of happy , without too many highs or lows . Republicans want to make sure that people can be happy in their own special way without anyone telling them what to do - this can end up with some people carrying a lot more than other people , which makes some kids happy and other kids sad . Neither side is perfect and they both have their drawbacks , but nobody really wants to compromise and vote for grapes .