Ok , this is n't easy to answer , because we have many states in our country , and they all have laws that can be slightly different . So the answer is going to have to be general , and you 're going to have to realize that in one place it may be different than another . The way a citizens arrest works is that you , as a good person , see someone else being bad . So you tell them " You are under arrest ! ! " in your best big - boy voice , and then you call 9 - 1 - 1 and the police come to take them away . Now there are a few things to have to do to make sure you do this right . First off , you have to SEE the person do the bad thing . You ca n't be told by someone else and then go grab the person . This is called " Witnessing the crime . " Second , the bad thing they do has to be what 's called a " felony . " Now , there are two types of crimes in our county , Misdemeanors and Felonies . Misdemeanors are the little crimes , like slapping someone or stealing candy from a store . Felonies are the big crimes , like really hurting someone on purpose , or robbing a bank . So if you see someone doing something wrong , you need to think , " Is this a big bad , or a small bad ? " If it 's a small bad , you need to call 9 - 1 - 1 and let the police handle it . If it 's a big bad , though , and if you do n't stop the person RIGHT NOW someone can get hurt , then you can step in and arrest them . Now there are certain things you need to do once you 've arrested them . First off is make sure that when you are talking to 9 - 1 - 1 ( you already called them , remember ? ) you tell them what you have done . This lets the police officers know that they have to get there faster , because arresting someone when you are n't a police officer can be dangerous . Secondly , you ca n't beat the person up . They may have done a really , REALLY big bad , like hurt a little kid or even killed someone , and you are going to be very , very angry . But like Mr Rogers says , " Being mad is ok , but you ca n't hurt people because you are mad . " Now , you can " defend " yourself if the person tries to hurt you . That means you can fight BACK , but you ca n't start the fight . But above all , if you see someone doing something bad , call the police . They are the ones who go to school to be police officers , and they have all the tools there on their belt , and they know all sorts of things about laws and dealing with someone who wants to hurt you or other people . Ok ?