It 's a school of thought that 's been somewhat formalized for a bit over thirty years . It basically started out on usenet , with alt.seduction.fast . The school of thought was pioneered Ross Jeffries , and it was mostly guys yammering about disingenuous tricks like using neurolinguistic programming ( NLP ) on drunk girls in bars to get them to come home with you . Others came out with new methods that used social ritual and premeditated interactions put together in " routines " to have similar effects without relying on the girl being drunk or open to NLP . " The Mystery Method " is one of the most popular ways of learning these routines , mostly designed and pushed by Erik Markovik AKA " Mystery " . IIRC , David Wygant and " Gunwitch " were also big names in " the community " around that time . As it gained in popularity , these authors began publicizing their works . Mostly , they started with forum subscriptions and " boot camps " ( where they would lead a small group of students through some coaching sessions then application in the real world , or " the field " ) . It became more commercialized , with real estate guru Eban Pagan ( AKA " David Deangelo " ) pushing a very popular series of motivational seminars , books , and such . The industry boomed in about 2007 when VH1 published a show featuring " Mystery " called " The Pickup Artist " . Popularity and popular hate of " the community " soared . The series pretty much crashed and burned - people seemed to just laugh at it . The second season in 2008 was much less popular , and a third season was not attempted . As " the community " has evolved since then , the focus has come to rest on self - improvement . The line of reasoning is that if you become an attractive , interesting , popular man , women will want to sleep with you . Most of the " routines " are targeted only to socially inept beginners who need a crutch to learn social conversation skills and gain confidence , and are generally unpopular except in that context . Most of the coaching is in self - improvement , encouragement to keep a wide social circle including platonic friendships with women , and proper exercise , hygiene , and clothing . Of course there are many claims of objectification of women ( and men ) , dominance games , and just plain being shallow ( chasing and befriending only attractive , popular people ) . Those are value judgments , not appropriate for this subreddit , and you 're best off locating and reading some of the material and coming to those conclusions on your own . To answer your question directly , about popular techniques now , it 's pretty much following a simplified outline of a social conversation with someone who will become a friend . Do that , and make it clear that you 're romantically or sexually interested , and you 'll tend to have success . To hijack the mystery method : 1 . Open - begin speaking to her . Either ask her a question relevant to her ( what she looks like , what she 's wearing ) or where you are ( something that just happened , something unique about the venue ) . Avoid complimenting her outright , buying her a drink , or anything else that appears to be presenting affection with anticipation of a return of affection . 1 . Comfort - discover and share commonalities , like drinks you like , vacation places you like , childhood memories , etc . Anything that evokes good memories and that you have in common is a good topic for conversation . 1 . Attraction - lead her through being attracted to you . Assume that she will be , allow her to demonstrate that she 's worth spending time talking to , and recognize her as a valueable person . 1 . Seduction - IF you actually are attracted to each other , begin touching her more ( part of the social acclimation that you should have learned as you practiced the other steps is basic social touch , like holding her arm or shoulder if you 're leading her somewhere , punctuating an exciting story by grabbing her hand , etc - now is when you push past that and put an arm around her or the like ) . If you 're both interested , the touching will proceed along a fairly well documented scale ( " escalation ladder " ) and you 'll move to a more private place to let what happens happen .