Funny enough , this is a good question for a five - year - old , since technically speaking , many five - year - olds fit the definition of sociopathy ! The difference is , they grow out of it . A sociopath , as I understand it , lacks the ability to empathize with anyone or anything else . Think about little kids trying to share toys : when one decides he wants what the other has , he just takes it , because that 's what he wants . He ca n't understand yet that the other child has wants too , and that those wants matter just as much as his own . If he hurts the other child , he does n't really understand the concept of " sorry , " because he 's not old enough yet to understand hurting other people . Kids who * are n't * sociopaths ( and who have at least vaguely decent parental input ) grow out of this : as their brains mature , they gain the ability to relate to other people , to understand that hurting other people is n't OK , and to feel empathy for people who are hurt or sad . A sociopath never gains that empathy , so he remains stuck in " little kid " mode : I want what I want now , and why would it matter to me what other people want or feel about it ? Just like a little kid , this can lead to lots of problems later : things like empathy help us control our impulses not to do things that hurt other people or break laws , while a sociopath wo n't have those tools . Genuine sociopaths are often not like the clever schemers you see on TV : without impulse control , they often act out so much that they 're caught quickly ( although some are not ! ) . My father tells the story of a patient that had attempted suicide by putting a gun to his temple and pulling the trigger , but had missed and simply blown out his frontal lobe instead . My dad met him when Dad was an intern , and the patient now showed signs of being much like a sociopath : he no longer felt empathy at all , and no longer understood " rules " except as he chose to make them . He would happily grab a cupcake off another patient 's tray simply because he wanted it , and could n't seem to understand at all what might be wrong with doing that .