The balance sheet is a deceptively easy item in accounting . What it tells you is three things : 1 ) How big of a pile of stuff do I own ? 2 ) How much money did I borrow to buy my big pile of stuff that I still have to pay back ? 3 ) If I removed everything from my pile of stuff that I still owe money on , how much is left ? This smaller pile of stuff that you have paid in full for and that you do n't owe another cent on is your " equity " . It can be broken down to the classic accounting equation of : ASSETS ( Total Pile of Stuff ) = Liabilities ( Stuff in your pile that the bank can take back because you have n't paid for it yet ) + Equity ( Stuff in the pile that is paid for and yours forever ) Or , in terms of a home , if I take out a mortgage and buy a $ 200,000 house , and promptly pay $ 100,000 as a down payment , I own half of a house . That is my equity . The bank owns the other $ 100,000 of the house , and that is my liability . Again , the equation tells us : Total Assets ( The Whole House , 200k ) = Liabilities ( Bank 's half of the house 100k ) + Equity ( my half of the house that I plunked down 100k for ) . To answer the question about what equity is in finance , this is how is it important : Let us say that I owned an entrepreneurial cat . The cat decides to get into the business of rat control . I take the cat to the bank , and the bank lends the cat $ 995,000 as a business loan under the agreement that the bank can repossesses everything if the loan is n't paid back with interest . The cat takes the bank 's 995k and I throw in 5k of my own money that the cat never has to pay me back for , and he buys 1 million dollars worth of rat control equipment . Now if I went on Craigslist and offered to sell the cat and his 1 million dollars worth of rat control supplies to the highest bidder , my cat might sell for close to 1 million dollars . However , once the potential buyer found out that the 1 million dollar cat owes $ 995,000 to the bank still , the potential buyer would realize the EQUITY in the cat is only $ 5,000 , and would n't pay much more than that . Now that begs the question , why would I give the feline $ 5,000 that he did n't have to pay me back for ? This relates to the second use of the phrase equity in finance , which is ownership . I gave the cat $ 5,000 to become a partner in his business . Think of this as " seed money " that the cat can spend on things that will make his business better , and that he does n't have to worry about paying me interest on or ever repaying directly . Instead , he gives me 100 shares of Rat Cat Stock of a total 200 shares outstanding . He owns the other 100 , which he assigned to himself when incorporating his business . What 's in it for me ? As owner of 50 % of the EQUITY in the company ( I own 100 of 200 total shares ) , I am entitled to half of the profits ! Now if the cat is very successful and makes $ 200,000 in profits each year after paying interest on his loan to the bank , that is great for me ! Going back to our general accounting equation : Assets $ 1.2 Million Dollars ( 1 Million Dollars in Supplies + $ 200,000 profit ) = Liabilities ( 1 Million Principle Still Owed to the Bank ) + 200k ( Equity , money that belongs outright to me and the cat ! ) . The amount of money we borrowed from the bank does n't change . We still have 1 million dollars worth of equipment that could be liquidated and sold to pay back the bank , so that 200k is pure profit for us ( me and my cat ) as business owners . Now this $ 200,000 can either be paid to use in the form of dividends , or reinvested in new equipment and services that can help the business grow .