Short answer : videos use better compression techniques than GIFs . GIF was originally designed as a still image format , with the animation capability kind of shoehorned in later . Video uses compression techniques that were designed specifically for video . This means the file size of a GIF is much bigger than an equivalent video ( often 5x to 10x bigger ) , so it takes much longer to download . Long answer : Think of a GIF like a flipbook . It 's a series of still pictures that when played quickly , look like a video . You need to download each one of those still pictures . Each frame is compressed , but little is done to take advantage of the fact that one frame is probably very similar to the next frame ( there are some minor optimizations done though -- for instance if the background of a frame does n't change at all from one frame to the next , that background wo n't be sent to you every time ) . Video uses much better compression techniques . Each frame is compressed like in a GIF , but frames are also compared to the one before and the one after . Just like in a GIF , if the background does n't change it wo n't be sent to you every time . But there are also more clever things that can be done -- say a car is moving from left to right in your video . Video compressors will basically say " hey that car that was over there in the last frame , just move it to the right 5 pixels " . So you take the image of the car you already have , shift it to the right , and that 's your next frame . GIF ca n't do this . Since a lot of video consists of smooth motion similar to this , videos compress very well . This is called [ motion compensation ] ( URL_0 ) . There are a number of other issues at play here too : * The compression technology used by GIF is far older than modern video compression , so that the compression achieved by each individual frame is better with modern videos . The LZW compression technique used in GIF is 30 + years old , for instance . * GIF uses lossless compression , whereas most videos use [ lossy compression ] ( URL_1 ) -- basically the video compressor throws away data that you 're probably not going to notice anyway . And even if you do notice it , chances are it 's still good enough to get the point across . ( JPEG is another example of a lossy compression scheme that you 're probably familiar with . ) * Along with this , video compressors throw away some color information as well . This one is harder to explain easily , but basically your eye is better at noticing changes in brightness rather than changes in color . So the compressor looks at the brightness and color of every pixel . When it comes time to write out the video , it stores the brightness for every pixel , but only stores the color for every 4th pixel . The other 3 pixels share that same color . Hopefully that made some amount of sense . It 's called [ Chroma subsampling ] ( URL_2 ) if you 'd like to read more . All that adds up to better compression for video , which means smaller file sizes , which means faster downloads . Edit : wording