The Old Testament ( Jews refer to it as the Hebrew Bible or the Tanakh ) is made up of three parts . The Torah ( Made up of Genesis , Exodus , Leviticus , Numbers , and Deuteronomy ) The Nevi'im ( The books of the Prophets , made up of Joshua , Judges , I & II Samuel , I & II Kings , Isaiah , Jeremiah , Ezekiel , Hosea , Micah , Amos , and a few more ) And the Ketuvim ( The Books of the Writings , including Psalms , Proverbs , Job , Esther , Ruth , Ecclesiastes , Daniel , The Song of Solomon , I & II Chronicles , Ezra / Nehemiah , Lamentations ) . These books make up the history ( mythological and otherwise ) of the Jewish people , from the beginning of time until the return from the exile to Babylon ( ~500 BCE ) . It mainly charts the progression of the relationship between the descendants of Jacob and God , and how covenants between these people and their deity were made , broken , and changed . This selection of documents was canonized ( made official ) around the time of the return from Babylon , but some of the texts ( such as Daniel ) are significantly later . There are apocryphal texts that close the narrative gap between this period and the period of the New Testament , mainly the Books of Maccabees . Many different Christian Bibles include different selections of Apocrypha from between the time of the end of the OT and the beginning of the NT , but that 's not really relevant . The NT is a collection of writings about a Jewish man in Roman Palestine who , from the perspective of the book , was the Messiah . This meant that he was anointed by God to save the entire world . There is a long history of messianic thought that goes throughout Judaism , mainly stemming from the traditional belief that God promised to make King David 's family ( The subject of I & II Kings ) the monarchy over the world . This did n't happen , so the belief kind of got pushed off into the future . In many ways , the NT is a book that was made to unify the Roman Empire under one belief structure , based in the Hebrew Bible , and then made available for non - Jews through the theologizing of Paul . It is made up of 4 Gospels ( Mark , Matthew , Luke , and John ) a post - gospel narrative ( The book of Acts ) , and a whole bunch of letters containing Christian theology written by many people , but the vast majority of which were written by a Jewish man from Syria ( Paul ) who became the founding father of Christian doctrine . There is also the final book of the New Testament , Revelation , that is an apocalyptic writing focused on the return of Jesus as a savior for the world . It is similar in many ways to the book of Daniel from the OT . If you have any other questions , please let me know !