Start by imagining just a single sound , like a piano key being played once . A sound is a wave in air , and every wave has a particular frequency . Really high pitched sounds have waves that are very close together , and so they have a high frequency ( because they occur frequently ) , low pitched sounds have long waves , and so a low frequency . If you take a sound 's frequency and double it ( in other words , squish the waves together so they are half as long ) the note has the same sound , just a higher pitch . This is called an octave . This is because the two notes would peak at the same time , with the higher frequency wave peaking once in between each lined up peak . It works the same if you double the frequency- it 's the same sound , but an octave lower . In western music , the octave is divided into 12 semitones . Think of all the black and white keys on a keyboard : there are 7 white keys and 5 black keys . If you play all of these at once , it sounds really bad ( or dissonant ) . To make music , we use only a few of these notes , and we call the notes we 've picked to use the key . There are many different patterns of notes to pick out , but the most common one is called the major scale . To make the pattern , you use what are called half - steps , and whole steps . A half step means the very next note , and a whole step means skipping a note . Starting from the note at the beginning of the scale ( called the root note ) the pattern goes : whole whole half whole whole whole half , with the last half step being between the last note of the scale and the root note an octave higher , starting the pattern again . The most common scale and root note is the C Major scale . The C major scale corresponds with the white keys of a keyboard . C^ ! D^ ! E F^ ! G^ ! A^ ! B C. The black keys ( ^ ! ) are the notes skipped in the whole steps . Notice that there are no black keys between the E & F and B & C : these correspond to the half steps in the C major scale . To play in any other major key , pick a different note as the root note and follow the same pattern . I think that 's a decent start .