I tried explaining this once to my wife 's friend who was over for supper . We were having hot dogs , you know the big fat ones that go the whole length of the bun . Who thought to design hot dog standard sizes such that the bun is longer than the wiener anyway ? Everyone hates the bun - only bites . I mean , people complain about the number of buns and the number of wieners not matching , and certainly I understand that , but the size is never considered . Speaking of which , why is so goddamn hard for me to find winter gloves that are the right size ? I mean size in term of thickness , not in terms of finger length . It seems like the gloves are either too thin and do n't keep you warm or they 're too thick and you jam a bunch of buttons on your car radio like Homer Simpson trying to dial 911 in the episode where he 's on disability . Man that was a good episode . It really makes you wonder if people ever had trouble finding the " any key " in real life . My favorite line is when he says that ' All this computer hacking is making me thirsty ' , when all he 's done so far is look for the any key . Later on he somehow designs the Mr. X webpage and gets it online with regular updates . Even though the design sucks , that 's still a major accomplishment when that episode first aired like 10 years ago or whatever . Sorry what I was talking about originally ? Oh yeah , hot dogs . I like to put regular chips on my hot dogs . It adds some nice salt and some crunch . But my wife said " not when there 's company here , it 's embarrassing " . I mean , what 's to be embarrassed about ? As if grinding up a bunch of pig and horse face pieces into a mush and then squeezing them into a little edible plastic tube and then boiling them in water and eating them is totally normal , but adding a deliciously prepared potato is SO gross . Then my wife said that if I said all of that to her friend , it would be more embarrassing than if I just put chips on my hot dog . In the end , I just ate it normal . And a little piece of me died that night .