tl;dr : GIF is an image compression format , which is n't really suited well to compressing video data . Basically the only advantage is that browsers support the format natively without loading plugins . Actual videos compressed with video encoders are way more efficient . --- In an animated GIF , each frame of the animation is encoded as a separate file , and then the files are more or less just stuck together in the final animation . You can do something similar with JPEG ( Motion JPEG ) , although it 's not supported by browsers in quite the same way as GIFs . Also GIFs do a better job of compressing line art rather than photographs . Thus , making a video out of GIF images yields pretty poor compression anyhow . In an encoded video file , the video compressor takes into account that successive frames are ( probably ) related to each other . The first frame is encoded completely , in a similar ( but more advanced ) method as a JPEG might be . However , the next frame is typically encoded as just the difference from the first frame to the second . This is way more efficient for most videos where motion happens slowly . Say the video is of a ball falling . In an animated GIF , each frame is a standalone , complete picture of the ball and any surroundings . It 's compressed rather poorly , and a lot of redundant information is sent , so each individual frame is very large . In a video encoded with a video codec ( MPEG1 , MPEG2 , MPEG4 , h.264 , h,265 , etc ) , the first frame is compressed somewhat similarly to a JPEG . Then the second frame basically says " see the region of the first frame where the ball is ? Move that down a bit . Fill in the background with this information . " - This frame is * way * smaller and easier to transmit than the first frame . It 's also easier and faster to decode . There are some drawbacks to the video compression approach , but in general it does a way better job of representing the video data with way fewer bits . --- EDIT : Wow , this is getting a lot of attention :) I left out a lot of stuff to keep the answer simple , but I 'm getting pinged about a lot of the same things over and over , so here 's a few quick additions : - Yes , compression algorithm differences matter as well . I said something to this effect , but to extend : GIF uses a compression method that works well for color patterns , and video encoders use something that works better for photographs / live video . I did n't try to explain DCT / Quantization / entropy coding since that 's a super technical topic for ELI5 . - Yes , GIF can represent a simple delta between two frames . However , in the case of video data , it is rare that this is useful . Someone asked for a more detailed explanation of this , [ my response is here ] ( URL_1 ) . - Yes , there may be other factors at work besides the bitrate / coding issues . I think it is safe to say that GIF is a terrible video compression format , and that 's probably the root of many other issues . However , I have n't profiled browsers to see where they spend time decoding animated GIFs . I made a list of other places that could be inefficient [ here ] ( URL_0 ) . - Yeah , your " five year old did n't understand this " el - oh - el :P If my 7 - yr - old had the interest I 'd try to explain it to him and get his feedback , but I think he 'd rather play LEGO . --- EDIT 2 : A couple more things people are asking / mentioning : - Several people have mentioned HTML5 Video and WebM as alternatives to animated GIFs . There 's a lot of back - and - forth , legal issues , competitors refusing to agree and so forth that is really hampering the HTML5 video tag . [ Wikipedia has a long article on the subject . ] ( URL_2 ) We 've had better video technology than GIF for years and GIF is still going strong . I think we 're stuck with it , despite it being a terrible technology for the problem . ( See also : practically every other technology used on the web ) - A common question is " So does this mean that simpler videos with less movement will be encoded to smaller file sizes ? Or that complex or really random videos make larger or less efficient video files ? " The answer to this somewhat depends on the encoder settings , but in general the answer is yes . If you encode a simple video with little motion it will take less data than a more complex video with a lot of motion and random stuff going on . Modern video encoders are tuned towards encoding video sequences from cameras . They make assumptions based on what the real world looks like most of the time , and use those assumptions to compress more efficiently . They also take into account what our eyes are good at seeing .