Basically , you can move the lights around between camera setups , and you can color correct . In normal " single camera " shooting ( Like a normal 30 Rock episode ) , you can and do tweak the lighting pretty much every time you move the camera . Shooting live , you need a flatter " general purpose " lighting setup that will work okay for every angle but does n't necessarily look amazing at any angle . You also need all lights above the set and out of the field of view of the cameras in live production , whereas in single camera you can have a light or reflector just off camera for a nice effect . You can get the actors to shift their positions to get better shots . You can refresh makeup between takes . All sorts of little subtle things that you 'd never think of if you 've never been on a set because the end result makes it all look like it happens naturally . In live production , you ca n't change your mind about anything once the show starts . In many cases , you will also use different lenses in live production . In a single camera style shoot , you will have a person dedicated to focusing the camera . ( Focus Puller , or 1st Assistant Camera Operator . ) So , if you want to have nice soft blurry backgrounds that make the subject " pop " in the frame , you can shoot with " wide open " lenses so only the actor is in focus . To do that , you need to rehearse any camera or actor moves so the focus puller knows how to move the focus setting on the lens through the course of the shot . Autofocus is n't good enough because it does n't always know which thing should be in focus , and if it gets confused it may make the whole picture go blurry and useless for a bit which ruins the shot . The 1AC may need to use a measuring tape to check the exact distance between the camera and the actor to make sure things are exactly in focus , which requires walking into the camera 's field of view during shot setup . Obviously during live production you ca n't have somebody stopping the scene to measure , or repeating a take because focus was n't right so you " stop down " the lenses or use different lenses so you do n't get the nice soft background and more of the scene is in focus . When framing shots in single camera , you can put the camera right next to an actor 's face to get an interesting shot . But when shooting live , each camera has to stay out of the field of view of every other camera which limits how interesting and varied the shots can be that you can get . One camera person walking right up to an actor would be visible to the other cameras , ruining their shot in a live production so such gags would have to be * very * carefully planned . Then , in editing you would only pick the nicest looking takes , which is obviously impossible when shooting live . Then you send the project off to color correction where the image gets tweaked and refined until it looks like the director / DOP and colorist want it to . This is probably the biggest shift in the image that you are noticing , but it is the hardest to explain . Look for some colorist demo reels on vimeo , and you 'll see some idea of how much the image sometimes gets changed during coloring .