There are multiple kinds . The alcohol - based gels work by ruining the bacteria 's cell walls ; alcohol in high concentration is very lethal to nearly all bacteria . The outer layer of human skin is already dead , and a lot more resistant to being penetrated by alcohol ; the 30 seconds or so that you 're rubbing your hands is n't enough to get through that ( relatively ) thick layer of protein and other dead - cell bits . But if you get hand sanitizer into a small cut it will touch unprotected , living tissues and sting . It also strips your skin of some of its natural oils , which is why the hand gels usually have moisturizers in them . Related : Your stomach , and to some extent other parts of the digestive tract , is already protected against * some * chemicals because it 's such a strongly acidic environment anyway and it takes rapid cell replacement and a mucus layer to keep the acid from harming you . This also reduces damage from alcohol , though alcohol is still poison . Ethanol , the kind in liquor and beer , is a poison too , but mild to humans in very low concentrations and we 've evolved to be able to consume small amounts . It 's naturally present in fermenting fruit etc . anyway like we would have encountered in the wild . If you drink a human - potable form of alcohol ( say , vodka , which is usually 35 - 50 % ethanol ) the most it 'll do to your stomach , if you do n't overdo it , is irritate the lining ; stomachs are tough . Then it 's diluted heavily in your bloodstream . But if you wash a countertop with that plain vodka , it 'll kill a lot of bacteria ; it hits them full - strength and they do n't have protective layers . The soaps with a small amount of an antibacterial topical drug in them , instead of alcohol , are similar . They 're toxic to bacteria , but do n't really penetrate the thicker , non - living human skin layer . The amount of exposure you get just from washing your hands , even if you have a few little cuts , is n't enough to do anything bad to you .