Key Existential Concepts The meaninglessness of life , the absence of God , the loneliness of being a thinking individual — it sounds like the existentialists were n't the happiest group of folks , right ? Not necessarily true . Read on to get an idea of what existentialism is all about . Absurdity : What human beings encounter when they come into contact with the world . Absurdity is brought about because the human instinct to seek order and meaning is frustrated by the refusal of the world to be orderly or meaningful . Anxiety : Kierkegaard said , " Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom . " You feel anxiety because you recognize that you and you alone are responsible for your actions . This produces the two - sided feeling of simultaneous dread and exhilaration . Alienation : The sense that you 're a stranger in the world , or a stranger to yourself . Many aspects of existence can be alienating . One of the primary sources is absurdity . Ironically , the stories and systems developed by philosophy and religion to address that absurdity can be just as alienating . Existence precedes essence : Sartre 's phrase to describe the existential situation humans find themselves in . It refers to the fact that when you 're born , you have no meaning , no purpose , no definition . Human beings exist first , and only later define themselves . The Übermensch : The word Nietzsche uses to refer to his ideal human being . Literally " overman , " the word reflects the importance in his philosophy of overcoming — overcoming traditional values , overcoming the herd mentality , and , most importantly , overcoming yourself . You overcome these things so that you might attain something greater . Nietzsche 's Übermensch is an unconventional creator of values , a joyous free spirit , and one who embraces the earth instead of pining away for heaven . The death of God : The death of the notion that belief in God alone , or belief in any religious or philosophical system , is sufficient to provide human beings with the meaning , purpose , and definition they crave . It 's the recognition that , because no external system can provide you with the answers , you must take responsibility for providing them yourself . Subjectivity : Your first - person perspective on the world , including the needs , desires , and emotions that accompany that perspective . The existentialists take this as a valid and important starting point for genuinely human endeavors . This can be contrasted with the scientific mindset , which always starts with objectivity — seeing people in impersonal , objective terms without emotion or appreciation for their individual point of view .