Since the past is our only reference point , let 's see when past forms of English became intelligible to modern speakers . I do n't think the high volume of written communication will have quite the effect the other commenters think . While written communication does preserve language , it by no means slows down change . Additionally , internet chats and texting have turned out to be ripe fields for linguistic play , so while I think our high volume of writing will have * an * effect , I 'm not convinced its effect will be to measurably slow down the evolution of the language . Changes do take longer to be entombed in writing though , so I think it 's likely you 'll be able to * read * future!English past the time you can no longer understand spoken future!English . By 1,000 years in the future I 'd expect future!English to be opaque to a speaker today . For reference , here 's English text from roughly 1,000 years ago ( Part of * Beowulf * ) > lange þrage ; he him ðæs lean forgeald . II Gewat ða neosian , syþðan niht becom , hean huses , hu hit Hring - Dene æfter beorþege gebun hæfdon . You can guess a couple words in there , but it 's meaningless today . So , let 's come up about 500 years and take a look at ( of course ) Chaucer . > If I foryete to tellen the dispence Of Theseus , that gooth so bisily To maken up the lystes roially ; That swich a noble theatre as it was , I dar wel seyen , in this world ther nas . That looks better . If we update the spelling to be correct in today 's English : > If I forget to tellen the dispence of Theseus , that goeth so busily to maken up the lists royally ; that such a noble theater as it was , I dare well sayen , in this world there nas Hey , mostly intelligible ! But still pretty different : note the no - longer - used verb forms * tellen * and * goeth * . [ Here 's ] ( URL_1 ) a recording . It sounds like a very odd dialect of English , but with a little practice you could probably learn it . It is not , however , immediately intelligible to an English speaker today . So , somewhere between 500 years and 1,000 years in the future we 'd expect English to go from " kinda sorta intelligible to someone today " to " could be Thai for all I know " , assuming that past trends continue into the future . For funsies , [ here 's a guy ] ( URL_0 ) who posited what English could sound like in the future .