I do n't think anyone really knows for sure . However : I think it would be a very , very long time . We live in a strange age . Adult literacy is much higher than it was 100 years ago , or even 50 years ago . We are increasingly moving to written forms of communication . If you go back to before Shakespeare 's time the written word was primarily used for record keeping . Stories were written down , but you would n't normally read them for pleasure , but read them out loud as entertainment . But now books and plays and tweets and reddit are written for everyone . The result is that the language has n't really changed that much . Whereas Chaucer ( 200 years before Shakespeare ) is almost impossible to a modern audience , Shakespeare and his contemporaries are quite understandable to a modern audience . And English has been standardised even more since then . Even in my lifetime I 've seen words which had different meanings in different places ( no - one uses the British billion any more ) become standardised , we 're increasingly using American spellings for things ( the British " sceptic " has fallen out of use , in favour of the American " skeptic " , with many British publishers preferring the second one ) . As we continue to be a society that communicates by writing , so we will continue to read and understand the writing of those before us , and the evolution of the language will slow down . There will be new vocabulary in the future that gets introduced , or old words that take on new meanings . ( " Computer " used to be a person whose job it was to calculate numbers . ) There will be new slang , and some old slang will fall out of fashion . There will be new concepts which need words to describe them . But because everything is likely to be archived and easily searchable you can probably go and look up words you do n't know easily enough . So there 's my predictions : in 1000 years they 'll still be reading Harry Potter , and we 'll still be able to understand them ( mostly ) , because the globalisation and the universal usage of written English has caused it to be standardised , and standardisation means the language evolves more slowly .