Browsers are not necessarily supposed to make money . They can serve the company 's goals in more strategic ways . Google wants the internet to be faster , because if ads load faster , people click on them more . Google 's browser , Chrome , is one of the things that Google does to try and make the Internet faster . Originally , their goal was just to give other browser vendors a kick in the ass to make their own browsers faster , which they have . Since Chrome has become so popular , they use it to promote other technologies that make the Internet faster or cheaper , like SPDY ( HTTP2 ) and WebM. Microsoft and Apple make Internet Explorer and Safari , respectively . These browsers are basically extensions of their respective operating systems , and their primary purpose is to make their operating systems more fully - featured . Windows has a browser just so that you ca n't say " Windows does n't even have a browser ! " Microsoft used to use IE to push its own technologies as development platforms for internet and intranet applications ( VBScript , ActiveX , XmlHttpRequest , etc ) but they 've backed off from that , and right now just want to be able to say that out - of - the - box Windows is the only software you need . I 'm less familiar with Safari , but I assume it 's basically the same : OS X has a browser so that you can say it has a browser . Mozilla is a non - profit organization that wants to make the web open and accessible ( something about democratization of information ) . Firefox makes money by renting out its search box to search providers . This money is used to fund development of the browser to be open and extensible , and other web - related technologies that are not necessarily browser - based ( like Persona ) . Opera is the biggest company that 's a traditional company , and actually makes money off of its web browser . It used to be ad - supported with a subscription model to remove ads , but it went free several years ago . After that , they made money by licensing their web browser for embedded use ( e.g. the Wii browser was based on Opera ) . The consumer - usable web browser also made money by renting out its search box like Firefox did , but was also a showcase for the engine that the company licensed out .