[ Affective neuroscience ] ( URL_1 ) is a very interesting area of study which examines " the study of the neural mechanisms of emotion . This interdisciplinary field combines neuroscience with the psychological study of personality , emotion , and mood . " It also examines how our own neural mechanisms are mirrored in animals ( and especially mammals ) because of shared ancestry . The study of motion is definitely a very active area of science that permeates many different fields - evolutionary biology , animal behaviour , human behaviour , animal communication , human communication , origin of communication , psychology , psychiatry , neurobiology ... each look at different questions concerning emotions . In ELI5 words this means that animals are certainly capable of feeling emotions because the neural mechanisms that produce emotions are conserved through evolution , and are similar to the neural mechanisms that produce emotions in ourselves . All mammals , being related through common ancestry , have even more similar and conserved mechanisms - humans are of course mammals too ! But a few things to note : 1 . The way animals express a particular emotion may differ from the way humans express that emotion . For example , humans often smile to exhibit happiness . But for the rest of the primate order smiling is either a signal of submissiveness or fear . This does not mean that other primates are incapable of feeling happiness , but that they very likely express it in different ways from ourselves . We also have to be very mindful that other animals , even cognitively complex ones , may be physically constrained and incapable of complex facial expressions . For example , we know dolphins are capable of a lot of complex cognitive tasks , they are able to identify themselves in the mirror and they may even have names for one another ... but they do n't have the facial musculature to make the expressions that are , well , as expressive as ours . Their emotions may not even be obvious for this reason , but that does n't mean they do n't exist . 2 . Humans like to make emotions poetic , like love . But love is simply a kind of attachment emotion . Humans become attached to each other and objects , sometimes to the point of obsession . Animals also become attached to each other . Mothers and their infants , bonding pairs of adults ... all forms of attachment exhibited in the animal kingdom . Again if you were interested in studying * love * , as a scientist you would actually study * attachment * . I recommend the book [ affective neuroscience : the foundations of human and animal emotions ] ( URL_2 ) . It can be rather technical , but it is very good read . In any case , if we want to objectively study emotion and their origins , we sort of need to take the " humanity " out of emotions and look at them in a more universal way . Edit : For something a little more directed towards the layman , [ the moral lives of animals ] ( URL_0 ) is a very good read , as is [ age of empathy ] ( URL_3 ) .