It 's sort of possible , but you need specific hardware to achieve it . Your computer probably only has one wireless receiver built into it , which can only connect to one wireless network at any one time . Incidentally , if you 're not familiar with how networks work , here 's a super brief explanation . Networks operate by sending and receiving packets of information . Routers are in charge of taking those packets and forwarding them to the correct destination . When you watch a YouTube video you are receiving packets of information from a content provider 's servers . Data packets are sent from there through multiple routers ( including your home router ) , eventually hitting your computer . In order to link together multiple Internet connections you 'd need to set up something like ... Multi - WAN or multi - homing , which allows you to " bond " multiple lines into what is effectively one line with increased bandwidth . However , there are several caveats : * Without support from your ISP ( which would n't happen in your case since you have at the very least multiple accounts in use through one ISP and at worst multiple ISPs ) , you will not see tripled speeds on downloads , only what one connection supplies . However , you can run three downloads , and each will run at the maximum speed one WAN connection can handle at the same time . The router can route new requests over whichever of the two lines has the most available bandwidth if you set up the load - balancer correctly . * Most residential routers do not support multi - homing ( at least with stock firmware ) . If you have a router which supports DD - WRT , I believe it is possible , but still very tricky to configure correctly . I 'm not sure if a residential router can support it even with DD - WRT , given that they generally only have 1 WAN port and the rest are switched internally . * Sticky connections are necessary for much of today 's web , and might be difficult to set up depending on what software you 're running on your router . I honestly do n't know of a device that can do this with * * wireless * * WAN links , although it can be done via wired connections . What you wish to accomplish may also be achieved by setting up load balancing on a per packet basis , but you must have a server that handles incoming packets from all WAN links and reassembles the data into one unified stream . It 's fairly complicated and it definitely can not be done over wireless connections .