There are a lot of things you want out of a launch site . The first is that you want it in your own country . Many rocket payloads are sensitive to national security and you do n't want to ship them to another country to launch them . Next you need a big area where debris can rain down in the event of either a launch failure or just stage separation . Thus far there are no launch vehicles that can get a payload to orbit with a single stage from launch , so there 's going to be * something * dropping from every launch . Oceans work very well for this , as does Siberia . Oceans and mountains are often far apart . After that you tend to want to be close to the equator , at least for most launches . If you 're going into a " normal " orbit then launch eastward to make use of the rotational velocity of the earth . This can be as much as 1000 mph that you do n't have to achieve on your own , which is a big deal . Some launches require going pretty much directly north or south ( e.g. Sun Synchronous or Polar orbits ) , for which Vandenburg AFB in California is useful . When you put all of these requirements together you 're left with some pretty obvious choices for launch locations . The southern - most areas in the US that are near vast uninhabited areas ( i.e. oceans ) are the Southern tip of Texas , California , and Florida . Florida is more conveniently located ( plenty of industry nearby ) so it got the bid for most of NASA 's launches . California is only good if you 're not launching East , so it 's used for some launches . Now SpaceX has started construction on a facility in the southern tip of Texas to have their own facility . * * * * * * * With all of that said , yes , you would like a higher launch site , all else being equal . It gets you above a lot of the atmosphere which can be a real drag ; pun most definitely intended . However , all else is not equal and the other concerns are more substantial . It 's worth pointing out that getting to orbit is n't about getting to a high altitude — orbit is only about 250 miles up ( altitude of the ISS ) . It 's about getting to a high speed . The space shuttle can get to the altitude of the top of Mt Everest in about 52 seconds , and that 's not even traveling straight up . By that point it 's already moving largely horizontally at an overall speed of about Mach 1.2 .