Open ones usually make the sound stage bigger , you will be able to differentiate different instruments in an orchestra . It 's just closer to listening to something in a big room . But it 's horrible for travelling around , you will hear all the noise around you and everyone around you will have to listen to your shitty music . Closed headphones cancel noise a lot better , you 'll be able to listen in noisy / busy environments without problems . For gaming it may be preferable or you might have some feedback to your microphone . That being said it does n't really matter for listening pleasure , everyone has his own preference . I like my open headphones for playing guitar , especially useful when i try to play along to a song but do n't want people to hear me practice , i can just turn up my sound system and use the headphones for guitar and i 'll be able to hear both quiet well . Or sometimes in the evening i use them as speakers , if you turn the volume up it 's usually good enough to listen to some silent music while you fall asleep . On the other hand i hate them for gaming , i sometimes confuse what happens around me for things in game and people on team speak hear my game sound when i turn it up too much . Using the closed phones allows me to leave the world behind and just life in the game for a while . For travelling / noisy environments i never carry around headphones ( i do n't know why anyone does ... i guess mostly for posing reason ) . My rather cheap in ear headphones cancel the noise and have good enough sound for my daily train rides . With all the noise in the background i wo n't enjoy the higher quality from the other headphones anyway . And i would hate to break my better headphones by accident while they are in my bag . Edit : And while i love listening to old guitar songs , concerts and things like that with my good headphones ( they 're like goosebumps guarantee for good songs ) i feel like most party / dance music really does n't do to well with good speakers ... you really start to notice cheap effects and it just makes some songs unenjoyable for me , not sure if anyone else has noticed the same . Usually headphone people tend to only brag about how good the sound becomes with great headphones .