The physical construction of open back headphones means that your ear is still exposed to everything around you . This tends to make the sound more " airy " and " expansive " - some would say improving the " soundstage " . If you are unfamiliar with the concept of " soundstage " , this is a term loosely describing the headphone 's ability to recreate the sound in 3 - dimensional space ( think of it kind of like the difference between having 2.1 speakers and surround sound ) . Since the noise does n't reverberate in the headset on open back models , the bass response tends to be weaker than closed back headphones , but this can also improve the clarity of the sound . Because you are open to the environment , noise leaks to and from the headset as well : if you are not in a quiet environment the background noise will leak a lot into what you are listening to , and people nearby would be able to hear it quite clearly . Closed back headsets are the opposite to the above . Your ears are isolated from the environment . The sound tends to be " fuller " and " more powerful " - the soundstage is typically worse ( sounds more " in your head " compared to open - back headphones ) , though this can vary a lot still depending on a bunch of factors . Noise reverberates in the headset , tending to make the bass frequencies sound more powerful , though this can also obscure some of the finer details ( sometimes described as having a " muddy " bass for instance ) . You are isolated from the environment , and background noise will be greatly muffled and obscured , hearing only the noise the headphones are playing . The usages for each vary , but it 's basically personal preference . Each type just provides a different listening experience and it 's subjective what people will prefer . The main drawback of open - back headphones is the noise leakage , meaning they typically are n't suitable for everyday use ( you would n't be able to use them on a bus or train for instance ) . A niche application for open - back headphones that comes to mind is competitive gaming - competitive gamers value the excellent soundstage which gives great directional cues ( for instance , picking the direction of footsteps in a shooter game ) and the more balanced sound signature can prevent the game 's sound effects from becoming overwhelming ( stop loud , bassy sound effects like explosions from interfering too much with audio cues - conversely some may prefer closed back headphones for the opposite reason in that it makes sound effects like this sound more weighty and immersive )