Worked in a mobile phone repair centre for a fair while . We repaired / cleaned water damaged phones on a daily basis . There 's basically two causes of damage . 1 ) When the phone first gets wet , the water can short out the circuit . This can cause damage , but ussually phones are low power and so ca n't really damage themselves with a short circuit . It 's possible , but not that common . This sort of damage we did n't really bother to " repair " . We just randomly replaced components until it works again then bill the customer for all the parts . 2 ) After the water dries out ( leave phone in rice overnight trick ) , the phone will most likely work again . However the water drying up leaves behind whatever chemicals were in the water on the metals used in the circuits . Left unchcecked , this will eventually lead to corrosion . Corroded metals do n't conduct electricity properly or can break a connection entirely . This will stop your phone working . This is why a water damaged phone can start working again the next day but then eventually a few weeks / months later stop working properly and eventually degrade to the point it no longer works at all . This is the corrosion slowly breaking your phone . We repair this sort of damage by resoldering the connections that look corroded / broken and hoping for the best . If this does n't work we just tell you your phone is fucked and sell you a new one . To repair water damaged phones that still worked , we would take all the components out , scrub the PCBs and all the connections with a solvent and a tooth brush to effectively wash them out , then dry them and put them back together . Getting this done within a week or two of the water damage generally guarantees no lasting impact on your phone . However since the phone often starts working again after the original water damage , people often figure it 's fine and do n't bother with any repair work while corrosion slowly eats their phone from the inside . Most phones I ever saw that were no longer working , had some level of corrosion on the circuit components . Simply cleaning the corrosion off with solvent and a toothbrush fixed a surprising amount of them .