It is not healthier , and though sometimes chemical fertilizers and pesticides can end up in the food , I do n't know of any documented instances of this actually harming anyone . Organic food tends to be more likely to have slightly more bacteria on it , however . Though this is likely not a hugely significant factor either , I personally prefer non - dangerous " artificial " pesticides in my food over potentially sickness - inducing " natural " bacteria . With that said , a lot of it is a marketing scheme . However , there are some benefits to organic food . None of it comes from " eating " it , but by supporting organic food businesses , you are also supporting smaller farming businesses . These smaller farms often treat their animals better ( though not necessarily always ) and leave less of a footprint on the environment . However , the resulting product is often more expensive as well , in addition to the things mentioned above . On the front of GMOs which are generally not considered organic , no — there is no benefit to eating non - genetically modified foods . In fact , one could easily make the argument that GMOs are a very good thing , as they not only decrease the costs of food but also improve the quality of the food , making it larger and more disease - resistant . Neither of these are bad things , contrary to what non - GMO purists would argue . However , the major con to GMOs is that they often leave a larger footprint on the environment due to how they are grown . If a genetically - modified crop is engineered to be resistant to a certain pesticide , a farmer can be expected to use more of that pesticide to keep their crops safe . This can be detrimental to the local environment . However , some GMOs have been engineered to have a beneficial , opposite effect . Another con to GMOs is that they can be patented , making the produce market more competitive for farmers . * * tl;dr**—it does n't matter if the food you eat is organic or not , but there are secondary effects to producing non - organic foods .