Well , if we 're going to leave behind Hollywood in our explanation ( Terminator just is n't going to happen , sorry . AIs will never be in control of large scale systems without a human in the loop ) , the real danger is that we get to the point where the evolution of artificial intelligence is faster than the evolution of our meaty knowledge . We can lose control of the ends to which these tools are being made . Think of it this way : before there was speech , all we could do to learn was to watch others . Before there was writing , humans essentially had to re - learn everything by ( at best ) being taught by someone else . Before there was computers , we were limited to the speed of data lookup ( how fast you could retrieve the information ) . Before there was the Internet , we were limited by data volume ( how much data your library or computer stored ) . As we made incremental progress , we accelerated our pace of learning , until now we use computers and AI as a sort of " almost thinking " tool : we train computers to infer what we will be interested in seeing . In fact , we use computers to design new processors , so you can sort of see how our tools are becoming necessary to make more of their kind . No one person knows where all the transistors are on a CPU anymore , rather we 're using software to ensure that the thing that runs the next generation of software will do a good job . At some point , it 's not inconceivable that this role of computers can pass a point known as " the singularity " : imagine someone is designing an AI , but the design of the algorithm gets too complicated to understand . If we get to the point that advanced algorithms are being used to create AI that designs algorithms , and on down the chain , it 's possible that our AI development will proceed _ without us _ . Now , we still have control of this process , but there are some dangers : what if the AIs we develop get too complicated for us to understand ? Then they become , best case scenario , inaccessible or worthless to us . This is likely to happen very soon , actually : multi - layer perceptrons ( [ neural networks ] ( URL_0 ) ) are _ specifically designed _ so that they are not understandable by humans in the goal of being more accurate at predicting the desired output . They are part of a class of supervised learning algorithms termed " black box " : you train them up , give them an input , and just have to trust the output , because you ca n't really understand what 's happening in the middle . In the worst case scenario , poorly designed algorithms find ways to prevent us from exerting control . While we will still likely be able to starve them for some time ( cut the cord ) , the deeper we get with AI algorithms , the more powerful they get - but the harder they get to understand . Perhaps , if the figure of merit in their design is " do stuff as efficiently as possible " , human - in - the - loop interactions can be so inefficient as to carry less weight than the algorithm itself does , which would cut us out of the decision making . Of course , well designed algorithms would optimize more for " do stuff as efficiently as possible , with human tuning , and the ability to quit if something goes wrong " . Since humans decide what the " goal " of a well - constructed AI is ( and will for some time to come ) , computers lack their own volition . They are n't going to " decide " that they are smarter than us . This means we still understand at least what the AIs we develop are attempting to optimize for . When we let them optimize themselves , it 's not inconceivable , however unlikely , that they choose to optimize for something we do n't think is important . This is n't really going to lead to war against the machines , but rather some economic disaster : when we rely on an AI for decision making ( like is very common in today 's stock market ) , one slip of the algorithm can [ cause a lot of economic havok ] ( URL_1 ) . tl;dr : the more layers of AI we use to design and build AI , the harder it is to ensure that the result is exactly what we were asking for .