How do you think most of the developing countries came about in the first place ? The majority are former colonies of one European power or another , set up as nation - states on the European model during the 20th century independence movements . Most of the British Empire , in particular , was acquired not by an official government policy of expansion but by wealthy individuals going off to seek their fortune . Men like Cecil Rhodes or [ James Brooke ] ( URL_1 ) . The British government often only took over later when [ some disaster or other ] ( URL_2 ) reminded these people that running your own country is not all that easy . Imperialism is usually associated these days with rapacious exploitation of native people and their resources , and with irresponsible meddling with half - understood tribal rivalries and customs and other complicated local issues that has set up many of the problems of the world today . This is all partially true , although it should be remembered that , like the Billionaire in your question , many of these people had good intentions . They really thought they were helping the natives out of poverty , savagery and paganism , and that it was not only the right but the duty of civilized white men to rule other races that could n't rule themselves . And if they made a fortune out of resources that the natives were hardly using , why not ? After all if the British did n't occupy these places [ someone else who was really nasty would instead . ] ( URL_0 ) This might all seem horribly racist but you are basically making the same assumption : that some rich guy from a rich country can run a country better than the natives . It 's not just you either . Despite all the condemnation of imperialism we continue to have the same debate all the time that they had in the 19th century . Is it better for a powerful country to leave other countries alone , however horrible the things that happen there , or to stop those things and then assume all the expenditure , responsibility and resentment of running that country for years to come ?