Generally the legislature decides , and when they do , it 's generally based on geography . And yes , the absolutely can change , it 's just not as common nowadays . For example , I 'll take you through the history of Georgia 's capitals ( since I live here ) . Savannah , on the coast , was the first city established in Georgia , and it was the de facto " capital " during the time when we were still a colony ( since we were technically governed by England , but the royal governor sat in Savannah ) . When we became a state , Savannah was named the state capital mostly because it always had been . As the state expanded , the population started shifting west and so Augusta , a little further up and west , was chosen as the next capital partially because it was nearer to the new center of the population and partially because it had served as a rotating capital with Savannah whenever the British were constantly laying siege to it during the Revolution . Augusta was the capital for a little bit before they moved it to Louisville , which did n't amount to much . In 1802 , governor John Milledge sent out a party to find the new geographic center of the state and there they would establish the new capital . The surveyors found a natural spring bubbling up close enough to the center , and so decided to establish Milledgeville as the new capital ( and eventually my home town :D ) . Milledgeville served as capital through the Civil War , until 1868 . During Reconstruction , the military governor of Georgia ordered new delegates to meet in Atlanta . Atlanta became the official capital for a few reasons . First , it was a rebirth from being burned down by General Sherman ( even open - minded , progressive liberals in Georgia gag at the mention of his name ) , and it gave Georgia a new start away from its Confederate capital . Also , Milledgeville is surrounded by hills , which made it hard as hell for trains to get in . Atlanta , on the other hand , is relatively flat and actually began life as a train hub called Terminus . It also was a bigger , more modern city on the rise . So the decision was pretty easy to make , and Atlanta 's served as capital of the state ever since . TL;DR : It 's the legislature deciding where to put the capital , and they can change relatively simply . They just do n't tend to anymore .