This is so completely ridiculous . As a nation , the US ( supposedly ) prides itself on not ( usually ) crumbling to terrorists threats . If we alter our way of life , based on fear , terrorists win . It is a goddamn movie . The people of North Korea do not even know of it 's existence . They have no connection to the civilized world . So , what is the matter ? Who does it hurt ? Do people really think that a comedy starring a Canadian stonner Seth Rogen and squinty eyed James Franco will result in global uprising ? Come on .... Where was the hostility when Team America came out ? What made that so different ? Puppets ? Shit , I mean , The Interview is probably going to be just dick jokes the whole time . When it comes to comedy the point is clear : either everything can be lampooned and joked about or nothing at all . It is that simple . This is the school of Mel Brooks . Trey Parker , Matt Stone , and Seth McFarlene abide by the code ( with a few executives pulling material ) . Stand - Up Comedians like Dave Attell , Lisa Lampanelli , and many others also abide by this . Once we filter and censor comedy , then it loses all meaning . We lose basic human will to decide . This does not mean that comedy can not be tasteless ; it most certainly can be ! Months after the Boston Marathon bombing a naive girl dressed up as a victim for Halloween . She trended hard on the web and in a very negative way . It got to the point that she lost her job over it ; absurd . She did nothing wrong . She found humor in a somber place that was relatively still new on peoples minds . She had the right to make fun of it . The issue that it comes down to is - taste ... Tasteless ? Most likely . She did not dress up as a victim to maliciously attack victims , their families , or anyone in the city who was affected one way or another . She was a girl who turned relevancy of the world around her into a Halloween Costume . Years ago , when I was 8 , I was a HOBO for Halloween . I essentially lampooned homeless vagrants who abuse the rail system . No one batted an eye . Where is the outrage there ? It is just a damn shame that over time the human races strongest trait is FEAR ... we place more stock into fear than anything else . We do not place nearly enough emphasis on education , love , or understating . If the human race were Jedi 's ... most of us would have succumbed to the Dark Side by now ; within the past few decades alone .