This is coming from someone who is a conservative republican - For the most part , It 's not quite that simple - Issues involving Taxation are FAR too complex for a true ELI5 The Current tax system is 1 ) Too severely weighted toward a progressive tax 2 ) Too Complex for anyone to understand as a whole Right now , almost 50 % of the US either pays no income taxes , or pays a net negative income tax . ( They get money given to them that they never paid into the system in the first place because of tax policies that amount to income redistribution . ) [ To show how weighted the system is right now - The top 1 % pays more in taxes than the bottom 90 % ] ( URL_0 ) . This leads to a situation where a significant portion of the population has no skin in the game . They have no reason not to insist on a larger government , with twice as much taxation . You can double , triple or quadruple taxes overall - they do n't care . It does n't affect them , cause they pay nothing to start with . It 's what economists call a Moral Hazard - you know whatever happens will cause someone else to pay the cost , not you . However , the answer we favor is not simply raise taxes on the poor and lower taxes on the rich . That by itself will not fix the fundamental problem . That problem is the insane complexity of the US tax system . It costs a lot of money to comply with the tax code - In many cases the costs of making sure you are in compliance outweigh the actual taxes paid , especially for businesses . Some of those costs include * Additional Record Keeping * Accountants * Lawyers * Lost Revenue , as your time and efforts could be spent on profitable activities instead of tax compliance * Economic Distortions - Tax loopholes and penalties give you an incentive to change your behaviors in ways that would not make business sense without them * Lobbying - If the tax system allows some groups to get preferential treatment , almost every business or interest group out there is going to lobby for them to get their own special treatment * Tax Evasion * Underground or Black Market Economy Simple tweaks of the rates here and there are not going to solve any of the major issues with the tax code - I want to see damn near everything we have wiped off the slate , and replaced with a much more straightforward tax plan . My personal preference would be something like the " Fair Tax " plan - Something that wipes out ALL income taxes , and replaces it with a across the board sales tax ( Along with a " Prebate " that would cover any sales taxes for a level up to the poverty level ) I 'm not necessarily married to that one specific proposal - but something of that nature that radically simplifies the current system , and puts millions of tax lawyers , lobbyists and accountants out of work while making it easier on the taxpayer would be good for me .