The SSME 's nozzle runs [ over - expanded ] ( URL_4 ) at sea level , because it 's designed for maximum performance at high altitudes . This means that its exhaust pressure is less than ambient , and so there is an exchange of energy between pressure energy and kinetic energy at and downstream of the nozzle exit plane as the flow tries to sort itself out and achieve equilibrium . Because the flow is supersonic , this exchange takes place via [ shock waves ] ( URL_2 ) . This shock waves produce dramatic local variations in the density of the flow . As the exhaust flow goes through these shock waves , it slows down . This converts some of its kinetic energy into increased pressure energy , which helps it to achieve equilibrium with the atmosphere . However , because of the gas law ( PV = ρRT ) , the rapid increase in pressure drives up the static temperature of the gas ( total temperature is approximately conserved ) . This means that the flow immediately downstream of the shock is both denser and hotter than the flow immediately upstream of the shock . This has a dramatic impact upon how bright it appears to be , because 1 . The amount of light emitted within a given volume of gas obviously depends upon the number of atoms or molecules within that volume , and is therefore proportional to density . 2 . The total radiative power is proportional to the [ fourth power ] ( URL_0 ) of the static temperature of the gas . 3 . The SSME 's exhaust is a mixture of steam and Hydrogen , which mostly emits [ spectral lines ] ( URL_3 ) rather than black body radiation . This means that there is a minimum activation energy to get anything to happen , and so a relatively small increase in the mean static specific energy of the flow may result in a sudden and dramatic increase in radiation . Because LH2 / LOX engines produce an exhaust which contains no carbon , the flame has a very low emissivity , and is mostly transparent ( most of the radiation is actually in the UV range ; the red / pink tint comes from excess hydrogen in the exhaust , which is there because Isp is maximized by running rich and thereby lowering the mean molecular mass of the flow ) . This means that the Mach disc shows up particularly well . You can get a better idea of just how over - expanded the flow is from [ this image of a test firing . ] ( URL_1 ) Incidentally , if you were wondering why the Delta IV has a much brighter exhaust despite also burning LH2 / LOX , the reason is that the [ RS-68 ] ( URL_5 ) uses an ablative nozzle to cut cost . As it ablates , it adds carbon to the exhaust , upping its emissivity , producing a brighter , more yellow , flame . * * tl;dr * * over - expansion of the exhaust produces shock waves , which dramatically change the local static specific enthalpy in some parts of the flow . The amount of light emitted per unit volume is a very strong function of the local static specific enthalpy . * edited to fix a typo *