Hi ! I 'm from New York . You 've gotten some good answers , but maybe I can help go more in - depth . The very first thing to remember is that in more expensive cities , wages rise with cost inflation . Now , it 's not a perfect scale-- most of the cost inflation comes because many people are * very * rich , not necessarily because the poor are less poor . However , it 's still a factor-- there are fewer minimum wage jobs , and/or you 're more likely to get a job whose wages are above the federal minimum . In other words , chances are the same job netting you $ 7.25 in Nebraska will get you around $ 10 in NYC . Now that 's not 100 % true . There are still * some * minimum wage jobs here . How do people get by ? Well , about like anywhere else , I suppose . They do n't get to enjoy many aspects of the city where inflation has taken hold . They do n't get to go out to dinner at the nice restaurants or go drinking in NYC bars . They ca n't go to Whole Foods , they have to go to cheaper grocery stores . They have to curb themselves more , and * * they get government assistance * * like anywhere else . Remember , the farther you go from NYC the cheaper things get , so many times people will live far away from the city if they do n't make a lot . And if they 're living far away from the city , and working a minimum wage job ... they can just as easily find one near where they live . Hence , like I said , there being less minimum wage jobs in the city . It all ... * kinda * evens out . You 're not likely to live in NYC and have a minimum wage job as an adult . Matter of fact I ca n't think of a single minimum wage job I 've had , and I 've made the rounds as a student . Office worker , busboy , waiter , receptionist ... they all paid around $ 10 . And one last thing to remember : The cost of living does n't * have * to be high in this city . It 's totally doable on less money . The reason it seems higher is that it * can * be higher . And most people making very little tend to have a social circle where people make standard ( remember how I said there are n't many minimum wage jobs here ? It 's rare ) So what happens is most of your friends can go do things and spend money where you can't-- so it * seems * like everything has to be so expensive here . But it does n't , really . Like I said earlier , there are cheap places to live , there are cheap restaurants , cheap grocery stores . There are plenty of free activities for entertainment . This city actually caters very well to the poor , it 's just difficult if your social circle is n't as poor as you .