Your question has to do with * culture * which is passing on of [ non - survival ] traditions or behaviours from one generation to the next through learning , observation , or teaching . It was first thought that only humans have culture , but through the extensive and exhaustive observational research conducted by primatologists across the world , we now understand that animals also have culture . " Prior to these findings , opponents to the idea of animal culture had argued that the behaviors being called cultural were simply behaviors that had evolutionarily evolved due to their importance to survival . After the identification of this initial non - evolutionarily advantageous evidence of culture [ handclasp ] , scientists began to find differences in group behaviors or traditions in various groups of primates ... " . As more species are studied , examples of social animals possessing culture have increased dramatically . * " [ Kinji Imanishi ] ( URL_0 ) , first used the word with a prefix as the term " pre - culture " in referring to the now infamous [ potato - washing behavior ] ( URL_2 ) of Japanese macaques . " " Imanishi 's study was particularly revelatory because it traced a specific behavior , in this case the act of washing potatoes before eating them , from its origin as a novel invention through several generations of transmission . That remarkable potato - washing behavior was even adjusted and improved by the monkey culture as time went on , as they learned that washing their potatoes in salt water made them taste better . " * " ... Researchers McGrew and Tutin found a [ social grooming handclasp ] ( URL_3 ) behavior to be prevalent in a certain troop of chimpanzees in Tanzania , but not found in other groups nearby . This grooming behavior involved one chimpanzee taking hold of the hand of another and lifting it into the air , allowing the two to groom each other 's armpits . Though this would seem to make grooming of the armpits easier , the behavior actually has no apparent advantage . " " Today , more than 40 populations of chimpanzees have been thoroughly studied , and scientists have found at least 65 categories of behaviors that are culturally transmitted , including varied technology , communication , play , food gathering or eating methods , and social behavior . " * " ... Evidence for differing dialects among songbird populations has been discovered , especially in sparrows , starlings , and cowbirds . In these birds , scientists have found strong evidence for imitation - based learning , one of the main types of social learning . " * " Bottlenose dolphin , humpback whale , killer whale , and sperm whale songs and clicks are widely unique among different groups . In fact , researchers now acknowledge that these vocal differences are sufficient enough to be considered different dialects . Furthermore , different groups of some species , such as orcas , exhibit radically unique hunting techniques , and even diverse tastes in food , including the proclivity to hunt entirely different kinds of prey than other groups . " [ More on culture in animals ] ( URL_1 )